---
layout: page_narrow
---

Empath's are unique personality types, their sensory levels are always
on high alert, they are incredibly intuitive and their awareness and
sensitivity to the energy levels that vibrate around them are
extremely high.

If an empath senses something, they are not often wrong. If they think
someone's lying or that something is just “not right” you can bet your
last dollar that they are not wrong.

Therefore, a basic understanding of this mystical and quite magical
creature is highly beneficial.

Empaths have quite a few little quirks, traits and characteristics
that are worth knowing about, and gaining a better understanding of,
so that any relationship that is formed has a strong survival chance
and also so that it thrives.

Empaths can be deeply misunderstood. It can take a little time to get
to know them before they fully unravel and until their true
magnificent spirit receives the opportunity to shine.

Love with an empath will be intense as they are energetically
sensitive, therefore they will pick up on everything and anything that
is happening around them. Regardless of whether emotions have been
outwardly expressed, empaths will experience their partner's emotions
as deeply as they feel their own.

It is impossible to try to hide true feelings when romantically
involved with an empath as they will likely have figured them out long
before the person feeling them has. Empaths are highly intuitive yet
sometimes fail to trust their inner voice as too many people have
previously tried to wrongly convince them that their gut feelings were
wrong.

Being a little naïve and trusting at times, the empath has doubted
themselves and pushed aside their intuition, causing them to lose
faith in the power they hold within that alerts them to any perceived
signs of danger. That being said, the little nagging voice in the
empath's head will not subside until the reality and truth has been
fully uncovered.

Empaths like truth. However hard it is to handle, they would rather be
told things straight than told a lie, even if it is a white
one. Although the truth isn't always pretty, it is much nicer than
spending days and nights trying to make sense of all the complicated
energies and subliminal messaging systems that are going on.

If it's one thing that empaths are amazing at it is dealing with a
brutally raw and honest relationship. Although they can be rather
delicate creatures on some levels, their strength in relationships is
found where honesty, trust and loyalty come before anything else.

Empaths can be perceived as having hearts that are caged in. Although,
this is only true when they have been deceived so many times they feel
that their only option is protection. The true spirit of an empath
wants to give and receive love in abundance, though they are only able
to do this when they feel safe and secure that they are in a safe
place to open the door and allow the love to flow.

One of the most tragic parts about the empaths character is that all
too often the love is cast out in all the wrong places. Empaths feel
the pain and sorrow of the whole world and feel that they want to heal
and fix the world up and make things better for all concerned. This
can be an amazingly powerful thing and this energy is exactly what the
world needs. However, this can also be a deeply painful way to exist.

Not everyone sees the world the way an empath views it and because of
this, an empath's heart will be broken constantly and they will bleed
endlessly for cruelty, injustice and inequalities. There will be many
who will want to take the love, affection and the empath's good nature
with no care for giving any return.

Whilst this can teach an empath a lot about unconditional love and
also an immense amount about self-preservation, it is also a deeply
painful learning process.

An empath will fail to understand why others do not give out care,
consideration and affection freely and why other people can so easily
turn a blind eye to heartbreak and suffering when healing is what is
required. Others may ridicule and belittle the empaths desire to reach
out and make a difference, and this serves to add salt to their
wounds.

When an empath feels hurt, what they need most is loving support and
understanding so that they know they are not alone in wanting to use
some of their powerful energy to heal and make changes in the world;
if they receive this from a partner, a bond for life will very likely
form.

Empaths will fall into the hands of those who want to take advantage
of their somewhat naïve and caring nature. Again, this is another
sharp lesson and one that can cause an empath to develop a sense of
mistrust and what leads to protecting their emotions with barriers and
brick walls.

It can also lead to an empath to feelings of unworthiness and also
low-self esteem, as once they have depleted their energy reserves to
such a low level by giving and not understanding how to protect
themselves in the process, they can end up with a broken heart and
with very little faith in mankind.

It is not in an empaths nature to take, they only know how to give, so
to ensure the relationship is one of balance and is also harmonious,
ensure the empath is shown love in the form of actions, so that the
circle of love flows freely. Words will mean little to an empath,
unless they are followed through. Their intuition will quickly pick up
on something done with poor intent, or if a person's words are
inauthentic.

To love someone who is an empath means to recognise that they thrive
when the flames are turned up, not down. An empath gives off a
powerful and energetic fuel of love, light and radiance, though the
fire only fully rages when an empath exists in a sacred place within
which they feel secure enough to glow.

Empaths are soft, delicate and immensely vulnerable creatures on the
inside, although, once burnt, on the outside they can appear
incredibly strong. Once bitten, twice shy where an empath is
concerned, they find it very difficult to forget deep wounds and to
continue a relationship once foundations are rocked.

The best way to fully connect with an empath is by creating a safe and
solid platform to build a future upon. If cracks appear through
mistrust and deceit, it can become immensely difficult to repair
them. Empaths thrive on trust, loyalty and dependability. Show them
these things and the relationship will be very difficult to break.

As empaths are highly passionate people, they will often find a strong
connection to a hobby or interest that others will find impossible to
penetrate. Due to their creative side, they may find a resonance with
music, dance, writing, art, activism, reading, Yoga, meditation,
humanitarian causes or other similar interests. Whatever it is that
has captured the mind of an empath will be become sacred in their
hearts.

Empaths will immerse themselves in their hobbies and lose themselves
completely and sometimes this can feel as though their interests are
the only things that matter to them. Although they will have a deep
attachment to their passions, it is far easier to understand that an
empath loves all things at great levels of intensity and they need
outside interests to survive and feel alive, this can sometimes be
difficult for others to understand.

Space, plenty of space, and freedom to explore and submerge in their
chosen activity is the easiest way to deal with this. Asking an empath
to choose may not give the desired outcome that would be hoped
for. The heart quickly gets connected to passionate interests, and
once that connection has been made, the heart will be break if it has
to be severed.

Respect and understanding for another's alone time can make or break a
relationship with an empath. An empath will not want or expect anyone
else to dive as deeply into their interests as they do, however, an
understanding that their interests are significantly important can
really make life a whole lot easier.

There is no need to feel ostracised or unwelcome, while there's a
little chance an empath will let you fully in to their special
interest, it is far more likely they will gain more pleasure when they
are wrapped up in it by themselves. This is not selfish or
inconsiderate, it is just simply how the empath's heart and spirit
operate.

If they have a connection to something, it is intense and they will
very likely wish to delve as deeply into it as is possible. Passions
are a great energy release and empaths will possibly feel as though
they zone-out while immersed, and they will very likely lose all track
of time. Allow them to take pleasure in it, and with the free time
this has created, take up interests separately rather than allowing
resentment or frustration to build.

It possibly won't last for too long, as empaths are known to move
quickly from one interest to another once the initial burning desire
of connection eventually simmers down.

As empaths are sensitive to energy, their worst-case scenarios are
confrontations and aggressive situations. Although under normal
circumstances they are one of the least violent and aggressive
characters, they can very easily lose their self-control if they
become absorbed in the negative and toxic energy that surrounds
them. Empaths are fight or flight characters who more often than not,
will prefer to take flight and remove themselves from the weight that
the energy is bearing down on them.

If situations like this occur regularly, it can eventually lead
empaths to become introverted and homebodies as they prefer the safety
of their own environment where they are not subjected to the rise and
fall of other people's energies. After attending any kind of social
situation, they will need downtime to recharge and to balance out
their own energy fields.

Places such as supermarkets, nightclubs, the cinema or anywhere where
there is a large crowd of people, will be very draining for an
empath. They are very sensitive to light and sound, so these things
can also have a detrimental and draining effect on an empath's
psyche. An empath will likely need to hold on to their partner's hand
or arm during such occasions, finding that their partner's energy
forms a soothing welcome block and temporary release from the energies
that surround.

After attending any social function an empath may feel completely
drained and the effects can be temporarily debilitating, meaning that
all an empath will want to do is sleep or rest, possibly alone, until
the absorbing effects of the occasion have worn off.

All in all, it will take a very secure, confident and balanced person
to form a solid mutually beneficial and rewarding relationship with an
empath. The empath personality type is a unique and extremely
enchanting gift to the world. As long as their wings are not clipped,
and they have the freedom and space to fly, it has the opportunity to
be a deeply rewarding, incredibly loving and spiritually awakening
relationship for both involved.

A connection with an empath can be a blessing and one of the greatest
gifts from the universe as it offers the opportunity to look at the
world through the lens of a kaleidoscope. Everything that may have
once seemed normal for a relationship will be turned upside down as a
new understanding and perspective is learned and the unconscious mind
is preened open.

At times it may feel like being in the company of a magically gifted
being who has special powers that we have been led to believe do not
exist within humans. This can be both a blessing and a curse. Nothing
will get past an empath as they see, feel and connect with everything
at all times.

The one thing I would strongly recommend is to peel back all the
layers that society labels as “norms,” “standards” and “expectations.”
We are then free to discover a brand new way of existing; giving and
receiving unconditional love, being fully alive in the moment,
connecting deep within the core of our primal being and reigniting all
the superpowers that are inherent within man.

A relationship with an empath can lead to uncovering special gifts
such as intuition, energy awareness, deep connection and a brand new
level of understanding the fellow man without the need for speech. All
the things the modern world has tried, for far too long, to convince
us we should deny.

True love can be a very difficult thing for an empath to achieve,
although with the right person, with someone understanding, grounded,
free spirited and trustworthy, love can be an intimate, deeply
bonding, healing, fulfilling, empowering and healthy addiction that
neither will want to break.
