<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary: an award-winning photographer that only uses a simple
point-and-shoot camera [Tags:photography](templatesphotography),
point-and-shoot, rob galbraith Parent:(Art.)Photography <span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Art.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Art.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[Art.Photography](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Art.Photography?action=print)

</div>

Source:
<http://www.robgalbraith.com/bins/multi_page.asp?cid=7-6468-7844>\
Page saved at: Wed, 04 Jul 2012 22:55:19 -0500

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Alex Majoli points and shoots
-----------------------------

Friday, June 3, 2005  by Eamon Hickey

In 2003, [Magnum photographer Alex
Majoli](http://www.magnumphotos.com/c/htm/TreePf_MAG.aspx?Stat=Photographers_Portfolio&E=29YL53UIH@2)
shot some big stories for *Newsweek* magazine.He spent a month in China
shooting documentary images of daily life. He was in Congo for two weeks
and Iraq for almost two months. In those two places he was shooting
war.Majoli's images for all three stories drew rave notices, and they
earned him some of photojournalism's most prestigious awards in 2004,
including the U.S. National Press Photographers Association's Best of
Photojournalism [Magazine Photographer of the
Year](http://www.nppa.org/competitions/best_of_still_photojournalism/2004/winners/still/index.cfm?category=MPY&place=1st&image=1)
Award and the U.S. Overseas Press Club's Feature Photography Award.It
would seem reasonable to guess that all that award-winning work in
remote and frequently dangerous places must have been shot with big,
fast, bulletproof pro SLR cameras. But in fact, Majoli shot every frame
with Olympus C-5050 digital point-and-shoots -- the same camera your
snap happy Uncle Maury takes to Disney World.More recently he's been
using the [Olympus
C-8080](http://www.olympusamerica.com/cpg_section/cpg_product_lobbypage.asp?l=1&p=16&bc=2&product=961),
along with his older C-5050 and C-5060 cameras, for many of his
assignments, including shooting in Israel for ''Vanity Fair *and the
U.S. presidential elections for* Newsweek''.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://www.robgalbraith.com:80/data/1/rec_imgs/741_majoli_02.jpg)\
(2003) Street kids begging in Goma, Democratic Republic of Congo. (Photo
by Alex Majoli/Magnum Photos)

</div>

Majoli acknowledges that most of his photojournalist colleagues think
he's crazy, but he's been shooting with digital point-and-shoots for
three years, developing techniques to deal with their shortcomings and
exploring their unique strengths, which still intrigue him. "I was
interested in finding a camera that gives me some new way to approach
the subject," says the 34-year-old Majoli, who was born in Italy and now
splits his time between there and New York City. His English is clear
and delivered with a distinct Italian accent. "This camera, you can
shoot in a different way."Majoli, who has been a professional
photojournalist since 1990, first discovered the new way that digital
point-and-shoots make possible when he was working on the book project
[A Day in the Life of Africa](http://www.ditlafrica.com/) in early 2002.
Olympus was one of the sponsors of that particular Day in the Life
effort, and the company gave Majoli an E-20 digital SLR and a
4-megapixel C-4040 digital point-and-shoot to use while shooting for the
book."I found the C-4040 amazing," the photographer says. "So small. And
it made a great file. So this was the big thing, the size of the camera
and the quality of the file."But other qualities that differentiate the
various point-and-shoot models he's used from their SLR cousins also fit
well with his shooting preferences, Majoli says. "The screen that pulls
out [and] shooting really silent. Digital cameras are great in the
night. Depth of field is fantastic; everything is sharp. This was
another thing that was really interesting. It's like on video,
everything possible is sharp. It's a new way to see the world."

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://www.robgalbraith.com:80/data/1/rec_imgs/742_majoli_05.jpg)\
(April 2003) U.S. troops survey burning oil fields in southwest Iraq.
(Photo by Alex Majoli/Magnum Photos)

</div>

The C-4040 was not actually Majoli's first digital camera, and his
previous experience had been with a camera more likely to be associated
with a professional photojournalist, namely the Canon EOS D30. He used
one while covering the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan, adopting it because
of the need to meet short deadlines.But it's perhaps easy to understand
why Majoli wasn't particularly enamored of that camera when you learn
that -- prior to his fateful meeting with the C-4040 -- the photographer
shot all of his previous work with Leica rangefinders and the very
compact 28mm and 35mm Leica M-system lenses.On a typical shooting day
now, Majoli carries four Olympus point-and-shoots and not a single
digital SLR or film rangefinder. In 2003, he began using the C-4040's
successors, the 5-megapixel C-5050 and C-5060 cameras, and in the summer
of 2004 he added a few of the 8-megapixel C-8080 cameras to his gear
bag.He carries six or seven 512MB Lexar <span
class="wikiword">CompactFlash</span> cards but no shooting
accessories -- not even an external flash. When he gears up for a long
assignment he'll pack a couple of extra cameras -- i.e. six total -- so
that he can weather any equipment failures. (Six C-5060 bodies have
almost exactly the same weight as two Canon EOS-1D Mark II cameras.)

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://www.robgalbraith.com:80/data/1/rec_imgs/743_majoli_04.jpg)\
(April 2003) American soldiers in Iraq wait out a sandstorm. (Photo by
Alex Majoli/Magnum Photos)

</div>

</div>
