<div id="wikitext">

<div class="frame"
style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto; padding: 3px; font-size: 85%;">

The novice comes into the barn where an old woman is sitting in front of
a bin of eggs, reaching into it, pulling out an egg, and she looks at
it, feels it, holds it up to the light, and smells it, and then sets the
egg into another tray to the right.

She repeats these steps with another egg, and eventually puts it to the
right as well.

Another egg, same process, only this time she puts it to the left.

This goes on and the novice observes, without asking questions, and the
old woman offers no explanation.

Finally, they break for the noon meal. Still without speaking of the
process, they return, only this time the nove sits in front of the large
bin of eggs. He picks up an egg, looks at it, shakes it, and the old
woman takes the egg from him, and proceeds with the same process,
looking at it, feels it, holds it up to the light, smells it, and then
sets it to the left.

The novice picks up another egg, looks at it, feels it, smells it, and
the old woman again takes the egg from him, looks at it, feels it, holds
it up to the light, smells it, and then places it to the right.

The novice picks up another egg, looks at it, feels it, holds it up to
the light, and smells it, and then hesitates. The old woman takes the
egg, looks at it, feels it, holds it up to the light, smells it and puts
it on the right.

Eventually, the novice begins placing eggs on the right or left after
going through the process. Occasionally the old woman takes the egg and
repeats the processes, rebinning the egg. By the end of the day, the old
woman is not taking any eggs from the novice.

The novice has learned to sex eggs.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Did you ever wonder how people learn to sex eggs? That is, determine
whether an egg is a male or a female fertilized egg? This is different
than determining how to tell if an egg is fertilized, but even that
requires a certain skill transfer.

The analogy is "You don't learn to play tennis by reading a book about
tennis" is what is at work here. You can't actually just *tell* someone
how to determine the sex of an egg (although there seem to be no
shortage of web sites that will attempt to do just that).

So, how do you learn how to sex an egg?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>

Especially useful for experiential learning, like that of consultants,
facilitators and communicators.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

**Metaphor/Modeling**
:   first, you tell them a story that relates to the learning objecting.
    These can be real stories, made-up stories, deep metaphors, shallow
    metaphors. Anything to break up the students' thinking and ease them
    into the topic. You model the behaviour by various means, in your
    telling, your asking, however you interact with people. This
    modeling should preceded the actual exercise and be repeated
    throughout the training whenever possible and in site and sound of
    the students.
    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

**Demonstration**
:   show them what the skill is by actually performing it on a live
    subject (one of the students usually). This let's them know what
    they are supposed to try to do, but **do not explain what is being
    done** -- just **show what is supposed to be done**.
    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

**Exercise/Experience**
:   describe the instructions that the students are supposed to do on
    each other. Make sure roles are clear. Ask for questions about the
    instructions, but **do not answer questions about how or why it
    works, objections to doing it, and discussions prior to the students
    performing the exercise**. While the students are performing the
    exercise, walk around and offer tips where needed, but don't
    interfere too much. A light touch is preferred.
    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

**Discussion/Clarification**
:   finally, after all the students have fully experienced the skill,
    they can discuss what they learned by doing it. Here explore their
    learnings. Also, further refinements to the skill, additional
    information, and other stories of how the skill can be applied are
    useful. Have the students answer their own questions, first elicit
    from the questioner their thoughts on the answer, and then elicit
    thoughts from the other students on their answers. The fewer answers
    from the instructor, the better.
    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

    -- [tamara](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Profiles.Tamara?action=print)
    March 08, 2012, at 11:32 PM

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
