<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:correspondence from a colleague on using end-state modeling
Parent:(Consulting.)<span
class="wikiword">[ChangeManagement](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.ChangeManagement?action=print)</span>
<span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[ChangeManagement](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.ChangeManagement?action=print)
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles) Tags:
modelling

</div>

Tamara et al,

Here are some thoughts on end-state, radical vs incremental, and
modelling

I look at it this way. If you want to make a change to a business
process, the best way is to harness peoples' creativity and enthusiasm.
This is true even if you call it problem solving rather than bpr. If you
want change to be significant, you have to get people to thnk beyond
their day-to-day routines. Despite all our modern enlightened
management, there are still plenty of people who see their role as to
fulfil a very tightly specified function and never to really think about
it. If you want them to really think, you need a vision of how the
process could be in a perfect world if all things were possible. This is
what I see as the End-state, although it is only really the end of the
current step, not the end forever.

Are we ignoring the current state? Well you would be if you decided to
design a process (system) based on your vision only. But that seems
unwise. For example, I know a bit about Production Management (I teach
it, and you learn a lot that way) but I couldn't specify in detail a
Production mgt / order flow process for a company without knowing the
strategic aims (cost/ time reduction, volume, design etc). I would want
to know how the manufacturing process worked and how it varied. I would
want to know what kind of unusual things happen with customers and
suppliers and materials and machines and employees. And even with that
kind of information I would still feel happier involving the people who
are going to operate the new process. This is because to design a system
you have to understand the environment in which it operates. That
understanding is accrued over time by the people concerned, and in the
routines they develop to deal with anomalies. Now, many of those
routines represent the waste we want to remove, but some represent
important operating issues which we must not overlook in the new design.
I would suggest that knowledge is hidden in those people and in their
ways of working. Involving people in the design process is not just
about being nice to them and helping them to design meaningful whole
jobs and working relationships, it is also about tapping the company's
main asset, its experience.

Modelling is usually proposed as the way to understand the existing
state. A good set of flowcharts, <span
class="wikiword">[IDEFo](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.IDEFo?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.IDEFo?action=edit)</span>
charts or <span
class="wikiword">[RADs](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.RADs?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.RADs?action=edit)</span>
or whatever-you-like appears to show in great detail how business is
done. Modelling can be a great experience, because sometimes managers
realise what happens in their departments. But you can't use models to
show the experience hidden in peoples' heads. A challenge: In your
current bpr project, take a look at your charts. for customer order flow
or for the flow of patients through your hospital. Now go and follow a
customer order through the factory or a patient through the hospital. It
isn't like you thought it was. Because in the kind of business you want
to re-engineer, there isn't a single unique way of doing things. Every
case is a special case. The charts give a general idea of the general
kind of flow, but they never get into all the possibilities. And it is
all the possibilities, the workarounds, the exceptions, which cause you
to need to redesign in the first place. And they are the things which
teach you about your products, your customers, your world. Important. So
modelling can only be a guide to how bad things are, and a tool for
drawing your new ideas. It doesn't help you to design new processes.
That's why it doesn't much matter which tool you use.

Another caution on modelling. The more you model, the more you will
understand the existing process. The more you understand it, the more
you will see the need for it to be the way it is. The more you need it
to be as it is, the more you lose sight of your Vision. You get sucked
down into the mire. If this happens, you'll be lucky to get an
incremental change. So it's important to do the visioning thing before
the modelling, or at least to do it separately.

To me, bpr is about two things. 1. Understanding that business is a
process, and looking at the performance of the whole, so that you don't
improve things that shouldn't be there. 2. Managing the change. This
means getting people moving, being creative, visionary and
participative. It means tapping peoples' experience, and not losing it.

The first one is easy.

And another thing, while I'm about it. Re-engineering is about
continuous improvement. Once you do the big step, you do some small
steps. If you get good at taking small steps, you don't need the big
ones so much (Kaizen). As someone commented recently, it's about
painting the Forth Bridge. (or some less famous river crossing) You
never finish. So I think it is really quite important to be careful
about getting rid of the bits you don't need. We are in a changing
world, blah blah blah and you don't know what business you will be in
next year. The capabilities the organisation currently possesses may not
all look useful at the moment, but one may be the bit that gives you the
ability to reconfigure later. Don't get too lean. We throw away the old
jigs and fixtures that we don't need. If ever we did need them again, we
could have them re-made. But not if we also threw away the drawings and
let go the engineer with the knowledge.

Hope this helps

Merry Christmas everyone

Dr Steve Childe University of Plymouth, UK

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\>My contention is that the individuals view of the world determines
the\
\>starting point.

What we try to do is accomodate individuals preferred type/temperament
while keeping them in the future state. The future need not be taken as
a whole to start with; we try to get them to be as specific as possible
about what they are doing, feeling, sensing, or thinking while they are
in the future state. We attempt to elicit from them as complete a
picture of the future state as possible, using their particular MB
preferred modes to do so.

\>If as a BPR practitioner I have a "sensate view" of the world then I\
\>acquire detail and build my big picture from there. In other words i\
\>start with the now.

In this case, we look at the very specific things the sensor will
perceive in the future state: "what does it look, feel, sound, taste
like?" and build up the picture of the future state from their sensory
perceptions about it.

\>If as a BPR practitioner I have an "intuitive view" of the world then
I\
\>want to start with the big picture and then fill in appropriate
detail.\
\>I start with the where to and the present then becomes one of the
details\
\>I may need to look at later.

Admittedly, it is easier for us to elicit the future state from the
intuitor, but only when they are in the future state as well. It is just
as easy for intuitors to have the big picture in the current state and,
unfortunately, be stuck there. It is also sometimes difficult to get the
intuitor to be specific about their views. We start with the big picture
and chunk down to get at specifics, while trying to ensure that what is
wanted is as well-formed as possible (clearly possible, self-directed, a
good sense of the benefit and how they would know if they got it).

Eliciting the future state provides people, in whatever style, with a
more resourceful playground. With the current state, people are less
resourceful, and we've found it difficult to reach agreement and
alignment, and have generally found that things don't progress from
there.

When communicating the future state back to an organization, we have to
address all types and temperaments, so that the sensors are able to
grasp it, the intuitors get it, the feelers feel it and the thinkers
know it.

\>To change\
\>ones mind and start with the now would, under my notion, need a change
of\
\>view of the world not just a change in starting point.

I hope I've offered a glimpse of an alternative. The elicitation process
must take into account the type/temperament, that I certainly agree
with. The starting point is typically whereever they are at that point
in time. Frequently, when we start working with people, they are deeply
mired in the current state. This is clear from how they describe "the
future": usually it is things they **don't** want. We move them to the
future state by accepting the things they don't want, and then asking
them what they **do** want, and then work to get that as well-formed
and -specified as possible.

We **do** want to change people's minds in some ways: we want to make
sure they become excited about the future state and feel / think they
can achieve it.

Best,\
Tamara Temple

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tam. G'day

Are you taking the approach you described in your message.

My interpretation of what you said is that by determing peoples
preferences you can capitailize on them. Also by being aware of their
"weaknesses" you therefore have an idea of the areas you may have to put
more emphasis on.

Is [Company XYZ] doing this now ?

Regards Denis

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\>My interpretation of what you said is that by determing peoples\
\>preferences you can capitailize on them.

Sort of. We don't run around doing MB inventories of everyone we work
with. It's more a matter of trying to fit what we do to many different
styles. The type/temperament preference is something we try to
accomodate to so we can hit on everybody's channels, not just a few. I
also work at exposing these different preferences so that the team
itself can learn to accomodate to the individual's channels. This is
only part of getting the team to capitalize on each other's talents.
Certainly expertise, experience, operating style, and other things are
grist for the team mill.

\>Also by being aware of\
\>their "weaknesses" you therefore have an idea of the areas you may
have to\
\>put more emphasis on.

Not exactly what I had in mind. The various preferences for
type/temperament don't naturally lend themselves to weaknesses in an
organization. The only time I've actually made an intervention along
these lines is where a team had been picked that was all the same
temperament. I strongly suggested to the sponsor that they constitute a
more diverse group, and she did.

It is an interesting concept, though, that there might be specific areas
to concentrate on improving as an organization based on the MB spread.
In my experience, I've found that there are several things an
organization can work on around communications, which is most certainly
tied to MB t/t (there is even a tool developed by Paul Mok (<span
class="wikiword">PhD</span>, I think) called "A Survey of Communication
Styles" which uses the central four types of the MB space to categorize
how people prefer to communicate. It's quite a bit shorter that even the
self-scoring MBI. (Contact Training Associates Press in the US at
214-437-3535 for more info.) We've used the survey in training courses
for teaching change agents. It's more to illustrate that there are
different styles (amazing how that eludes some people).

\>Is [Company XYZ] doing this now ?

To say that "XYZ" is doing anything is likely to be both true and false;
we're rather large, so somewhere, someone is doing something. WRT using
MB, I'd have to say that **I** (and some others in my group) try to make
note of the types/temperaments that are presenting and work to
accomodate them. We are pretty small, about 40 people, working mostly in
software-related or -supported businesses within XYZ, which is about
95,000 people! We do a fair amount of process-related work as well as
some basic software engineering capability building.

Email seems so low-bandwidth for this sort of communcation. I'm sure
I've left out a lot of important background detail.

Cheers,\
Tamara

</div>
