<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:a collection of things taken for granted that tomorrow become
completely absurd Parent:Consulting(.<span
class="wikiword">[HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.HomePage?action=print)</span>)
<span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[Consulting](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.HomePage?action=print)
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles) Tags:
absurdity, ideas

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="round lrindent tip">

Note this article was written in 1996! How many of these have come true?

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Today's certainties and tomorrow's absurdities
----------------------------------------------

<div id="sourceblock1" class="sourceblock">

<div class="sourceblocktext">

\
**GeSHi Error:** GeSHi could not find the language mail (using path
/srv/gandimouse2/home/home/tamara/Sites/tamwiki/cookbook/geshi/geshi/)
(code 2)\

</div>

<div class="sourceblocklink">

[raw
code](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.TodaysCertaintyIsTomorrowsAbsurdity?action=sourceblock&num=1)

</div>

</div>

From the Innovative Thinking Network *(see <span
class="wikiword">[OrganizationsThatCanHelp](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.OrganizationsThatCanHelp?action=print)</span>)*.

Wake-up, Brain ... it's Monday again!\
(The STILL absolutely free, weekly brain wake-up list)

Today's certainties and tomorrow's absurdities ... We got lots of
interesting responses, including one from Saul N. Silbert who states,
"To assert, unequivocally, that TODAY'S CERTAINTIES ARE TOMORROW'S
ABSURDITIES seems to me to be one of today's stupidities." Probably
true.

Most responses took a future view of possibilities ... for instance, the
first message from Kerri Hicks states that money may be obsoleted by
cash cards. It seemed that people were responding with ideas about
future developments that will make current technologies obsolete.

Perhaps the more important part of this exercise was identifying today's
certainties. What are our certainties ... those things that are such a
part of our everyday life and thought processes, that we take them for
granted today?

As an example, I just returned from a creativity conference in Holland.
At one point I needed to change a flight reservation and asked the hotel
receptionist for a phone book and she didn't have one! No one else
seemed to think that strange but I was stunned! As an American, I take
phone books for granted but will we still be printing phone books ten
years from now? Probably not.

The comments we received about this question are listed below, but I'd
like to push this a bit and see if we can make a list of those things
that we take for granted today ... e.g. telephones, supermarkets, hair
dryers, celery, fleas on dogs, mosquitos, mousepads, movie theaters,
baby diapers, universities, etc. Not that all of these things will
become absurdities ... but they might Send us your list ... please limit
it to 10 items and send it to

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Kerri Hicks:

Cash! Coins, dollar bills; people identify this ubiquitous thing we call
money with the actual stuff they can put their hands on. But with debit
cards, vending cards, and the like, cash is going to be unnecessary, and
indeed laughable in the next century.

You'll have a \$50 card with a microchip on it, and purchases will be
directly debited from that card. How many purchases of more than \$50
are made with cash \*now\*? Checks, credit cards, and debit cards are
the norm rather than the exception for large purchases. When was the
last time you carried more than \$50 around in your pocket? It's just a
matter of time.

The upside? It's easier to track where all your money's going. The down
side? For me, I'll sure miss that smell of crisp dollar bills.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Kevin Dew:

Immunisations, Just as we think that the nineteenth century practise of
giving large doses of mercury as a cure for disease was absurd, barbaric
even, we will see today's universal immunisation programs as absurd. In
the future, we won't be able to understand how the idea of injecting
toxic substances directly into the blood stream could be seen as a
health measure, and the fact that in many nations such a "treatment" was
compulsory will be seen as medical fascism.

Free Trade Agreements: The instituting of Free Trade Agreements between
countries without the concurrent institution of measures to protect the
environment or the living conditions of the citizens of the world will
be seen as absurd.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Teddi Deppner:

The idea that you must go to school for "X" number of years before you
are qualified to perform a particular job will become absurd (in most
technology jobs nowadays, by the time you've graduated, the things
you've learned are obsolete). Guilds and apprenticeships and
learning-by-doing will be respected again.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Azriela Jaffe:

Today we are certain that we can go to the grocery store and find enough
nutrious food to eat to keep us healthy and strong. This morning, as I
swallowed a glass full of capsules of blue green algae, disgestive
enzymes, and sprouts in capule form, I said to my husband, "Imagine
this - someday we'll be eating mostly capsules for our meals, and the
food will be the side dish!

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Steve J. Bannister:

The majority of scientists develop commercial products and make careers
of solving a few major problems each year for their employers in the
particular way it's done in their organization. Absurd!! Scientists move
about through the ether, coalescing about a problem as a temporary crew,
made sufficient by the gathering the right complementary individuals,
uninhibited by convention, and ready to kill, bill and dissociate.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Cam Mayor:

1 That we must always wear clothes in public. 2 That anybody that
actually WANTS to be in public office should be allowed anywhere near
the position.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Ozzie Gontang:

Running shoes will continue to advance in design and technology. They
will continue to neglect a major component: Man, the thinking body.

An atavistic paradigm shift will take place. Runners and walkers will
realize it's not the shoe, it's an innovative thinking body. A new line
of shoe will be created that allows proprioceptive feedback to the
thinking body. All of the thick running and walking shoes will be
replaced by thinsoled foot covers which allow the human animal to take
control of their youthful movement once again.

Traditional Tai Chi, Yoga, Stretching for the Thinking Body, etc. will
grow. Companies like Nike, Addidas, Reebok and their approach to shoes
will be tomorrow's absurdities. Weight machines with computers will be
used to measure gradual progress in strength. These weight machines will
be revolutionized as they now measure the correct increase in range of
motion as they strengthen muscles.

But as Alfred Adler said in dealing with the diagnosis of why people are
the way they are: "But it could bedifferent."

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Jane Jacobs:

Certainty today, absurdity tomorrow:

Education for youth, pre-school through high school, is usually a
low-funded budget item in our society. Compare what Federal, state, and
county governments spend on education to what each of them spend on
many, many other efforts -- including both "pork projects" and efforts
to address serious problems like unemployment, violence, poverty,
illegal drugs, etc.

Presumably tomorrow's decision-makers (whom we voting citizens will
elect!) will re-prioritize today's spending. Funding quality education
and "enabling" of youth would result in a better society for all -- and
after a transition period, the money would be more than made up from
decreased needs to fund "fixes" for societal problems, because those
problems would have naturally declined. "If you think education is
expensive, try ignorance." -- (I love this quote -- anyone know the
original source?)

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From W. Dewey:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

-   CARS: ABSURD when we all are able to teleport or bi-locate.
-   TELEPHONES: soon we'll all be telepathic. Before then, computers and
    telephones will be the same instrument, perhaps combined with
    televisions.
-   POSTAGE STAMPS: (you got this letter without one!)

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Randy Berger:

The US Postal System (if I had to pay \$.32 for every mail message and
financial payment [the check's in the mail] I would be broke!)

Telephones (already children don't know how to "dial" a phone!)

Smoking (the handwritings on the wall)

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Eddie Robinson:

Today's certainty in using paper for writing, and recording valuable
information will be an absurdity tomorrow. In the future, there will be
magnetic writing pads that record everything on to mini-laser discs and
can be kept for 20 years or more. Write recognition programs will allow
people who still haven't mastered the keyboard, to scribble onto these
pads all of their notes and sketches. No more trees need to be destroyed
to keep up with our ever growing population.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From J. Fahrenthold:

VHS will be like 8 track, dry cell batteries will be an anachronism,
televisions, computers, and stereos will merge in Binary Audivision, air
bags will yield to force fields, everything will taste like "chicken",
dirt houses using solar energy will emerge, tourism will fold as the
world's greatest attractions are immediately and readily available in
the domiciles of the future (the dirt houses of course), music will
revert to the crude instruments of the stone age (not the Rolling Stone
age), telekinisis, levitation, and anti-gravitional forces will be
commonplace. This will cause the so called geniuses of today to be
considered the morons of the next millenium. Anyone who disagrees will
be considered absurd.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Johnathan L. Lightfoot:

One thing that I can see as being a necessity today but absurd tomorrow
is the use of vehicles for commuting to and from work. With the current
technologies (and the ones still to come), I see people being able to
work directly from home. Further more companies are also beginning to
see the benefits ie., no need for large office buildings, thus no need
to buy them. I do honestly believe that my grandchildren will look back
at these current times and ask me why we did something as absurd as
commuting to and from work.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Valerie Beckingham:

The way to achieve effective organizations is to pare away operational
employees until only the minimum amount of work can get done and only if
all remaining employees are working beyond what can be maintained on a
long-term basis.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Peter Brentano:

The ultimate absurdity seems to me that capitalism cannot (as a model)
survive without competition; communism, the only mass competitor appears
to be collapsing under the weight of its own internal contradictions;
capitalism without communism will be left to collapse under the weight
of \_its\_ own internal contradictions, according to socialist theory.
This leaves us with the external contradiction that these two mutually
exclusive and conflicting theoretical models must die... ...and leave us
with?... ...ABSURDITY!

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From John Cartlidge:

That: there will always be enough oil/coal/etc. People
(policymakers)just don't seem to realise that \*\*ONE\*\* planet is all
we get!

That: there will always be enough room for people and enough food to
feed them.

Years ago I read somewhere that if world population continues to grow at
present rates, then by the year xxxThousand (I can't remember the
figure) the entire physical substance of the Earth would be converted
into people. Whilst I realise that natural limits would come into play
... you get my drift.

And one from the past that I can't resist... That: nobody in the world
could ever want more than 64K ram.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Cathy TPG:

On the average, women are paid less than men.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Vamsi Mohan Mudumba:

In this dynamic world every object would perish and become an absurdity
in future. But inhibiting one's ambitions and curtailing aspirations
would be like living a dead life. Everyone has to try and make a
significant contribution to the society so that his achievements would
be languishing atleast in the annals of history if not being applauded
as the best finding and utilised forever. As someone said 'Present is
but a channel through which the Future becomes the past'

For the philosophically inclined: In Indian (India as in Asia) mythology
one of the characters , Yudhistira who is regarded as the embodiment of
Knowledge is asked the same question. He replies "Man himself is so
absurd in his thinking. In spite of seeing so many people around him
perishing; refuses to believe that he too would be in the same boat one
fine day. On the contrary he tries harder and harder to make himself
more and more materialistically comfortable."

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Lois Carter Fay:

One of the certainties of the past has been good, clean water in the
U.S. That is now becoming an absurdity that will create greater and
greater havoc and health hazzards if it is not corrected. Many
communities are now finding problems with the water. What can be done?

A second certainty for me has been a safe community. By living in small
towns, where one knows just about everyone, people know which residents
bear watching/avoiding. With today's mobile society and ever-increasing
cities, the violence continues to grow. We must find a way to stop the
violence. In Milwaukee, Wis., a group has gotten together for a prayer
vigil at the site of each murder. They simply gather together, invite
the relatives and friends of the victim, and pray for an end to
violence.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Hubert Jongen:

Too many persons take it for granted that the State, the Government will
take care for your Education, Health, Work, House, Protection, Roads,
Everything, etc. etc. This will change. Some of them already now showing
beginning signs of malfunction. Be prepared. Find alternatives.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Roy E. Rodriguez:

RECYCLING!, "Recycling", a very trendy; positive; good; followed with
almost religious fervor; a certainty of today, but definitely an
ABSURDITY tomorrow! Did you ever consider how much ENERGY is required to
re-cycle? All the way from the collection process in the streets to the
gre-generating raw materials to the manufacturing process. Who really
benefits from recycling? It's more energy efficient to just Burn It! A
thought for recycling!!!

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Tuomo Myllynen:

Now we think it is important to be highly educated specialist to get a
job. This is changing school system, changing our way to teach and how
to learn and how we form cources. We are getting more and more expertise
on more and more narrow field or subject. Our thinking is narrowed, too.
These separete areas will have value and life of its own. Who undestands
the whole instead those isolated islands - who will see how all things
are like a network having nodes connected together and this is the
system.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Mikel Sorli:

What about travelling ?

We all assume that travelling consumes a lot of time. Flying, which
nowadays is recognized as the quickest way of travelling, includes
transportation to/from airports, waiting to board, plane transfers,
delays...and actually flying (take off, flight and landing). Will ever
be possible to physically "transmit oneself" from one place to a distant
other in almost no-time (i.e.: at light speed rates) ?.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Stephen W. Dennison:

Two things ... The Internet and Personal Computers as we know them
today.

My belief is that the Internet will not develop as quickly as the
applications are demanding, and therefore will be supplanted by
something totally different in a REVOLUTIONARY rather than EVOLUTIONARY
move.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Pamela Tucker:

Today's certainty that it is ok for governments to partake in
premeditated killing of individual prisoners and be applauded by the
majority of its citizens will be as absurd someday as chopping off the
hands of thieves.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Gina Matkin:

It is my feeling (and my HOPE) that a common occurrence of today (and
indeed a certainty in some companies and organizations) that will be
seen as an ABSURDITY in the future is the judgment of a person's ability
or worth based on physical characteristics or individual lifestyle. Now
THAT'S aburd!

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Ed Boyd:

It has been said that the only two certainties in life are Death and
Taxes. It seems that as we move toward extending life, thus making the
certainty of Death less certain (at least at a Certain Age); we increase
the certainty of Taxes, in greater quantity and for a longer time (in
relation to the period of life's extention).

The absurdity may be, that by making Death less certain, we increase the
certainty of Taxes; while remembering that traditionally Death has been
the only legal means of tax evasion.

Now, if all of this sounds quite absurd to you, then I may be on the
right track.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Peter L. Schuerman:

The current certainty that consciousness resides in the brain is
something which will be regarded as absurd in the future. Clinical
experiments by Dr. Stanislav Grof (see the book "The Holotropic Mind",
for example) present strong evidence that thoughts and memories exist
independently of the brain, and that the relationship between thoughts
and the brain is analogous to the relationship between radio waves and
radios (or perhaps shortwave radios, as these can transmit as well as
receive). The lovely thing about this model is that it not only explains
the clinical evidence, but also sheds life on puzzling phenomena such as
telepathy, past-life recall, and even certain religious/spiritual
experiences.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Langrick:

Within the next twenty years it will seem absurb that we spent so much
time on industrial progress and so little on repairing the damage that
it causes.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Wholeworld:

I think the idea that we must compete in order to prosper is a concept
that we will come to know as absurd. I think competition is an aspect of
our division from our highest wisdom, and it has led us to a very
dangerous place. I think cooperation across national, racial, class,
economic and all other barriers will come to be the norm, if the human
race endure on the planet.

I also think national and economic systems are an absurdity that we'll
come to recognize. I think we'll come to see that the whole planet is
the domain of all people and that we are all best served by eliminating
artificial barriers and recognizing our common humanity and working
together to create a world of harmony.

Just as these ideas seem absurd as I write them, I think the
competition, nationality and economic structures will come to be seen as
absurd, and we'll laugh that we took them so seriously (or we may cry if
we take them as seriously as Hitler did and do more of that kind of
harm).

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Alammers:

A 166Mhz Pentium with 2 Gigs of hard drive space and 32MB RAM will be an
absurdity in a year or two. *[ed: remember this was written in 1996]*

</div>
