<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:A story of how ideas catch on Parent:(Consulting.)<span
class="wikiword">[ChangeManagement](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.ChangeManagement?action=print)</span>
<span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[ChangeManagement](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.ChangeManagement?action=print)
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles) Tags:
change management

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div id="sourceblock1" class="sourceblock">

<div class="sourceblocktext">

\
**GeSHi Error:** GeSHi could not find the language mail (using path
/srv/gandimouse2/home/home/tamara/Sites/tamwiki/cookbook/geshi/geshi/)
(code 2)\

</div>

<div class="sourceblocklink">

[raw
code](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.CatchOnFactor?action=sourceblock&num=1)

</div>

</div>

a
Aesop:

The Two Frogs:

TWO frogs were neighbors. One lived in a marsh. where there was plenty
of water, which frogs love: the other frog lived in a lane some distance
away, where all the water to be had was that which lay in the ruts after
a rain. The Marsh Frog warned his friend and pressed him to come and
live with him in the marsh, for he would find quarters there far more
comfortable and - what is still more important- more safe. But the other
refused, saying that he could not bring himself to move from a place in
which he has become accustomed. A few days afterward a heavy wagon came
down the lane, and he was crushed to death under the wheels.

If a frog comes to the edge of your rut and tells you of a new and
different place what would you do ? At least pay a visit to see if it's
true ?

In James Shreeve's "The Neanderthal Enigma" (William Morrow, 1995) he
quotes Allan Wilson, who headed the team of human DNA mitochondrial
research that produced the "Eve" theory. The theory suggests that all
existing people came out of Africa as a single strain of modern homo
sapiens. We all are descendants from this historic "Eve" mother who was
transformed from archaic humans, sometime in the last 300,000 years.

"Ultimately it all came back to molecular mutations. In the brain there
must be a mutation for the ability to "catch on", to detect fellow
creatures who have discovered something and imitate it as good." Among
the population those groups made up of members who had "better" brains
and "caught-on" faster reproduced at a higher rate creating a positive
feedback loop generating ever-faster evolution. (page 123)

Human evolution since the beginning of modern people has been by
cultural advantages. All new technologies are tools of cultural
evolution:

**Stage I:** ( 70,000 years) hunter gathers become farmers and herders;
THE AGE OF CLANS, tribal territory, the dreamtime.

**Stage II:** ( 7,000 ) improvements in irrigation, transportation,
sailing and navigation, public administration and the money creates
"civilizations" cities and empires; THE AGE OF EMPIRES, myths, kings and
churches.

**Stage III:** (700 years) cannon boring, joint stock companies and
insurance, money and banking, printing, creates the nation states,
imperialism and the first industrial revolution, the federalist papers
and the U.S. Constitution, Newton, Kepler; THE INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION,
iron and coal. The age of reason.

**Stage IV, or III b:** (70 years ) mass production, the modern
corporation, public schools and universities, Plank, Einstein, and going
to the moon and back, all are examples of "catching-on" to better
methods. THE MODERN Period, The AGE OF OIL ( Chemistry and electricity )
The materialist, bottom line, structured world we come from and know.

As we layer into Stage III c, IV or V: ( 7 years ) the catch-on is to
smaller warm blooded flexible cultural grouping that search for niches
in a global economy. THE AGE of INFORMATION: negative feedback means the
end of the age of dinosaurs mass production organizations and causes
down-sizing. Positive feedback the "Gold rush" on the Internet. A world
we don't know - some of us "catchon" faster than others. Some
organizations learn faster than others.

SYNERGY-NET on <http://emporium.turnpike.net/~pflaump> or\
<http://metro.turnpike.net/~pflaum> <span class="_deob"><span
class="_t">pflaump<span class="_a"> [snail] </span>msn<span class="_d">
[period] </span>com</span> -\> <span class="_m">mailto:pflaump<span
class="_a"> [snail] </span>msn<span class="_d"> [period]
</span>com</span></span>\
Peter E. Pflaum Ph.D. , Headmaster GLOBAL\_VILLAGE\_SCHOOLHOUSE\
225 Robinson Road, New Smyrna Beach, FL 32169-2176 (904) 428-9609\
<span class="_deob"><span class="_t">pflaump<span class="_a"> [snail]
</span>sprynet<span class="_d"> [period] </span>com</span> -\> <span
class="_m">mailto:pflaump<span class="_a"> [snail] </span>sprynet<span
class="_d"> [period] </span>com</span></span>

</div>
