<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:an article on management development from California Management
Review Parent:Consulting(.<span
class="wikiword">[HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.HomePage?action=print)</span>)
<span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[Consulting](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.HomePage?action=print)
Categories:[Links](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Links) Tags:
management development

</div>

California Management Review, CMR Article, 25 pages. Christopher A.
Bartlett and Sumantra Ghoshal, Product \#CMR093.

Today, the most urgent challenge for most companies is to develop the
managers who must operate in the new delayered, horizontal, networked
organizations to deliver on their complex, multidimensional strategic
priorities. It is here that most companies are facing the greatest
difficulties. The reason lies in the historic "Russian-doll model of
management," in which managers at each level are expected to play
similar roles and have similar responsibilities, only for a different
size and scope of activities. The underlying premise that there is a
generic management role is being further reinforced by many companies
currently engaged in the new fad of identifying a set of desired
personal competencies as the anchor for their management development
initiatives. This article challenges this Russian-doll model of
management to argue that managers at different levels of the
organization play distinctly different roles and add value in
fundamentally different ways. Based on field research in twenty major
corporations, the authors identify the roles of front-line, senior, and
top-level managers in the new organizational form, and how companies can
develop these new managerial competencies.

Subjects: Leadership; Management Development; Management Philosophy;
Management Skills; Managerial Behavior; Personnel Management

</div>
