<div id="wikitext">

[She Negotiates](http://blogs.forbes.com/shenegotiates/)

And changes everything...

5/21/2011 @ 6:42PM |592 views

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Five Rules for Conducting Rancor-Free Political Conversations
-------------------------------------------------------------

[Victoria Pynchon](http://blogs.forbes.com/shenegotiates/), Contributor

Because I??ll be talking about solutions for Minnesota??s budget
stalemate on [MPR??s Mid-Morning with Kerri
Miller](http://minnesota.publicradio.org/radio/programs/midmorning/index.php?date=05-23-2011)
this coming Monday, I??ve been thinking about ways politicians and their
constituents ?? that??s us! ?? can have rancor-free political
conversations.

Based on my education and training as a mediator, as well as nearly six
years of full-time mediation practice, I??m setting forth five simple
rules that can make those conversations productive rather than
destructive.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

1. First, Agree Upon Rules for Civil Discourse
----------------------------------------------

Citing former [Virginia Congressman Glenn
Nye](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glenn_Nye), the Director of [Peninsula
Mediation & ADR](http://www.peninsulamediation.com/) [Merri L.
Hanson](http://www.mediate.com/people/personprofile.cfm?auid=974)
recently that civil discourse requires political leaders to take the
emotion of their constituents and distill it down to good policy by:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="round lrindent quote">

Demonstrating that they understand what people feel and how strongly
they feel it;

Articulating what the various sides share (identifying and building on
shared interests); and,

Agreeing to focus on engaged decision making through robust discussion
of merits.

</div>

The [Public Conversations Project](http://www.publicconversations.org)
suggests that people who wish to constructively discuss divisive
political issues should agree on the following conversational
parameters:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="round lrindent quote">

the parties will share speaking and listening time, not interrupting
each other and limiting themselves to a preset amount of time (e.g., 4
minutes);

speak for themselves from personal experience, not trying to represent
or defend an entire political party or ideological approach (tell a
story rather than assert an opinion or position); and,

maintain the spirit of dialogue by avoiding a critical or dismissive
tone, aiming simply to understand rather than to persuade.

</div>

The Project??s excellent publication *[Reaching Out Across the Red-Blue
Divide](http://www.publicconversations.org/docs/resources/red_blue.pdf)*
provides a step-by-step guide for conducting a civil dialogue ?? a guide
every elected representative and candidate for office should read, take
to heart, and put into practice especially any time he or she recognizes
that special interests
([petrochemicals](http://finapps.forbes.com/finapps/jsp/finance/compinfo/CIAtAGlance.jsp?tkr=XOM)
or
[pharmaceuticals](http://finapps.forbes.com/finapps/jsp/finance/compinfo/CIAtAGlance.jsp?tkr=PFE),
for instance) rather than the welfare of the people, may be driving his
or her conversation.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

2. If a Dispute Arises, Determine Whether It??s Based on the Parties?? Use of Different Data or Different Interpretations of the Same Data
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As the [Oregon Mediation Center??s](http://www.internetmediator.com/)
Conflict Resolution [Training
Manual](http://www.internetmediator.com/medres/pg18.cfm) explains,

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="round lrindent quote">

“Data conflicts occur when people lack information necessary to make
wise decisions, are misinformed, disagree on which data is relevant,
interpret information differently, or have competing assessment
procedures. Some data conflicts may be unnecessary since they are caused
by poor communication between the people in conflict. Other data
conflicts may be genuine incompatibilities associated with data
collection, interpretation or communication. **Most data conflicts will
have ‘data solutions.’”**

</div>

If you think hard enough, I??ll wager you can pin-point on-going
disputes with family or friends that are based on "data conflicts."

I re-visited one of my own last night while explaining the public
employment aspect of the Minnesota budget debate to my husband. I
referenced the "data conflict" among Minnesota voters ?? that the "slash
spending" crowd included the cost of benefits when comparing public and
private employee salaries while the "tax the rich" crowd did not.

It made a huge difference, I said, in voters' attitudes about benefits
for public employees since the rest of us do not tend to "count" the
cost of benefits when thinking about how much money we make. My husband
then launched into a peroration about the unfairness of public pensions.

“Public employees give up more money today in exchange for security
tomorrow,” I argued, “and private employees make the choice of earning
more money today and deciding for themselves whether they??ll invest
some of that money for retirement in the future.”

I??ve been saying this and my husband has been contesting it for the
past ten years. No kidding. Ten *years.*

“You keep saying that but you don??t know that??s true,” my husband
responded, as he *always* does.

I??d never thought the argument important enough to do a little research
and frankly had never seen it sourced in a “data conflict” before last
night. “You know,” I said, after a wearying half-hour of familiar
arguments, “this dispute *has* sapped our energies enough to justify
research.”

I??d love to tell you that I thereafter found the answer ?? and one that
proved me right ?? but I didn??t. For the tiny political husband-wife
divide in my house, however, I??ve surrendered, letting my political
"opponent" know that my research showed he might just be *right* and I
could well be *wrong*.

If you??re interested in this issue, two of the articles I found
attempting to make an apples-to-apples comparison between private and
public employee compensation are
[here](http://educationnext.org/comparable-worth/) and
[here](http://www.mnchamber.com/compstudy.highlights.final.12.9.10.pdf).

<div class="vspace">

</div>

3. The Parties Should Acknowledge that Neither "Side" Can "Win" the Debate and Commit Themselves to Finding a Cooperative Solution
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[University of Minnesota](http:/umn.edu) Professors [David W.
Johnson](http://www.cehd.umn.edu/edpsych/people/Faculty/Johnson.html)
and [Roger T. Johnson](http://www.cehd.umn.edu/CI/Faculty/Johnson.html)
[suggestthat](http://www.co-operation.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/Peace-Ed-Salomon-09.pdf)
cooperation among parties with diverse interests can best be achieved

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="round lrindent quote">

in an atmosphere of positive interdependence where individuals believe
they are so linked with others that they cannot succeed unless the
others do;

among participants engaged in activities with mutual goals, joint
rewards, complementary roles, and a shared identity;

when each collaborator is individually accountable for their fair share
of the work and is??given the opportunity to promote one another??s
success by helping, assisting, supporting, encouraging, and praising all
efforts to achieve the group goals;

if the participants have strong interpersonal and small group skills,
such as leadership, decision making, trust building, communication, and
conflict management skills; and,

where group members are allowed to discuss how well they are achieving
their goals and maintaining effective working relationships.

</div>

These aspirational characteristics of cooperative groups aside, my own
personal experience is that the moment everyone realizes no one can
drill a hole in the other side of the boat without sinking themselves,
cooperation always begins.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

4. Use Interest-Based Rather than Competitive Negotiation Strategies and Tactics to Solve the Mutual Problem of Conflicting Political Views
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The two Professors Johnson preach what we here at *[She
Negotiates](http://www.shenegotiates.com/retreats/)*
[teach](http://www.shenegotiates.com/retreats/), that collaborative,
interest-based negotiation leads to better negotiated outcomes for all
parties. The step-by-step procedure recommended by these two U. of Minn
professors are:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="round lrindent quote">

<div class="vspace">

</div>

1.  The participants should start by describing the result they want
    that they believe would flow from their political position;
    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

2.  They should also describe how they feel about the conflict;
    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

3.  They should detail the reasons underlying their needs and desires;
    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

4.  Everyone should agree that the group intention is to be cooperative,
    listen carefully, separate the people from the problem (no *ad
    hominem* attacks); differentiate their interests before attempting
    to integrate them; and, take the other's perspective; and,
    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

5.  Invent several optional plans to resolve the conflict that maximize
    joint benefits.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

5. Avoid the Following Deadly Conversational Traps
--------------------------------------------------

When we??re frustrated with reasoned dialogue, we all too often destroy
the progress we??ve made by falling into any of the following behaviors

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="round lrindent quote">

making statements that lock us into extreme positions we can??t back out
of;

frequently interrupting our conversational partners, exploding in angry
outbursts, or engaging in personal attacks;

selectively attending to and reasserting facts that support our views
while scanning the assertions of others for evidence of falsehood, ill
intent, and ignorance;

using slogans, shorthand, and buzz words that simplify the issues and
mean different things to different people; and,

asking few genuine questions and making assumptions about the meanings,
intentions, and values of opponents without investigation.

</div>

As the Public Conversations Project
[suggests](http://www.publicconversations.org/docs/resources/Jams_website.pdf),
we can tell we??ve fallen into these common destructive communication
patterns if little new information surfaces; the conversation becomes
repetitive; and, the discussion feels old.

Engaging in constructive dialogue about difficult issues is not easy for
anyone. The best of us will fail repeatedly in our efforts to learn how
and why our presumed adversaries believe the facts they do and have the
opinions they hold. In this regard, patience is a virtue, forgiveness a
curative and the desire for a more peaceful world a goal worth striving
for.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="display: none;">

Summary: The best of us will fail repeatedly in our efforts to learn how
and why our presumed adversaries believe the facts they do and have the
opinions they hold. In this regard, patience is a virtue, forgiveness a
curative and the desire for a more peaceful world a goal worth striving
for. Tags: <span
class="wikiword">[ForbesWoman](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.ForbesWoman?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.ForbesWoman?action=edit)</span>,Leadership,Strategies
Solutions,Conflict resolution,constructive
conversations,Controversy,David W. Johnson,Dispute
resolution,Employment,Glenn Nye,hot button political
issues,interest-based negotiation,mediation,Minnesota,Politics,public
consensus building,Public Conversations Project,public employee
benefits,public employee compensation,public employee pensions,She
Negotiates,State Budget Impasse Source:
<http://www.forbes.com/sites/shenegotiates/2011/05/21/five-rules-for-conducting-rancor-free-political-conversations/print/>
Parent: Consulting(.<span
class="wikiword">[HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.HomePage?action=print)</span>)
includeme:[Consulting.HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.HomePage?action=print)
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles)

</div>

Page saved at: Sat, 27 Oct 2012 09:05:44 -0500

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
