<div id="wikitext">

<div class="vspace">

</div>

6 Cognitive Biases That Make Politics Irrational
================================================

Writer, Editor: [Adam
Kingsmith](http://www.huffingtonpost.ca/adam-kingsmith)

Posted: 04/15/2013 12:00 am

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="round lrindent quote">

Politics are messy and erratic. People are volatile and illogical.

Perhaps there may be a correlation here?

Sexism, war, corruption, racism, torture, slavery, and inequality seem
to be chronic societal problems -- [democratic freedoms are sharply
declining](http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702303836404577474312596058338.html),
[the global economy is limping
along](http://www.firstpost.com/economy/wto-scales-down-global-trade-outlook-to-3-3-for-2013-694099.html),
[the environment is inching ever closer to that point of irreversible
decay](http://www.salon.com/2013/03/27/is_there_an_actual_tipping_point_for_global_warming_partner/),
and to top it off, [we have a fickle dictatorship threatening nuclear
war](http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/video/2013/apr/11/north-korea-missiles-south-video).

Yet our current worldwide political, economic, environmental, and
nuclear troubles are not entirely our own doing -- well at least not
consciously that is.

Critical psychological analyses have observed time and again that [we
humans are somewhat of a predictably irrational
species](http://io9.com/5974468/the-most-common-cognitive-biases-that-prevent-you-from-being-rational) --
repeatedly engaging in a multitude of nonsensical behaviours --
evolutionary hand-me-downs from a forlorn period of human tribal
interaction that scientists have come to refer to as *[cognitive
biases](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cognitive_bias)*.

In turn, these seemingly irrational flaws in judgement can lead to
perpetual distortion, inaccurate judgement, and illogical
interpretation -- all of which are key ingredients in the widening of
cultural rifts, the deepening of global disparity gaps, and the general
intensifying of political upheavals.

The good news is that just by being aware of how cognitive biases alter
our thinking and decision-making, we may be less likely to fall victim
to them in the first place -- paving the way for a more globally
conscious international citizenry to arrive at more politically,
socially, economically, and environmentally cognisant conclusions.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Confirmation Bias
-----------------

[Confirmation bias](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Confirmation_bias)

We tend to agree with people who agree with us, forming culturally
cohesive social circles based upon similar viewpoints, and unconsciously
referencing only those perspectives which reaffirm our deeply entrenched
beliefs -- [as I've written
before](http://www.huffingtonpost.ca/adam-kingsmith/self-censorship-reading-online_b_2403378.html),
the Internet can in part be attributed to the increasing prevalence of
this bias.

At the same time, we overly-scrutinize, dismiss, and outright ignore
opinions, figures, or evaluations -- no matter how comprehensive -- that
challenge our self-constructed worldviews. This contributes to
overconfidence in one's personal beliefs, leading to lopsided
decision-making in political and economic contexts.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Ingroup Bias
------------

[Ingroup bias](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-group_favoritism)

Similarly to confirmation bias, due to our species innate tribal desire
to be socially accepted, we tend to favour the thoughts, ideals, and
sentiments of those with whom we racially, culturally, and
ethnocentrically identify with most.

Unsurprisingly, this means we are inadvertently -- and at times
advertently -- suspicious, fearful, and even disdainful of the
preferences, wants, needs, and values of groups that we struggle to
identify with. [Racial
profiling](http://www.aclu.org/racial-justice/racial-profiling),
[Islamophobia](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/1528485/Media-contributing-to-rise-of-Islamophobia.html),
and [the predominant culture of fearing "the
other"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Culture_of_fear) all characterise
such ingroup biases.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Status-Quo Bias
---------------

[Status-quo bias](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Status_quo_bias)

Due to our unproven assumption that fresh alternatives are inferior to
our current state of affairs, we are apprehensive of change. Thus
people's preferences tend to be motivated by a desire to keep things as
familiar as possible.

The repercussions of this bias confines us to the same routines,
political parties, and economic strategies -- [i.e. America's perpetual
inability to enact healthcare
reform](http://www.newyorker.com/talk/financial/2009/08/31/090831ta_talk_surowiecki) --
and overall, this nostalgic longing for an antiquated and illusory
status quo serves as the driving force behind many of the unfounded
ideologies of modern conservatism.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Negativity Bias
---------------

     Negativity bias

People seem to give more weight to negative experiences -- not just
because we're morbid, but because given the choice, our cognitive
selective attention processes identify negative news as inherently
important or profound.

There are plenty of theories why we emphasise pessimism -- suspicion,
boredom, the fact that evolutionarily, heeding bad news could be more
advantageous than disregarding good news, [but nonetheless, violence,
crime, and other injustices are steadily
declining](http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=the-decline-of-violence) --
yet most people still believe the world to be getting worse.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

False Consensus Bias
--------------------

[False-consensus
bias](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/False-consensus_effect)

As we are limited in understanding circumstances outside of our own
consciousness, we tend to believe that most other people think just like
we do -- although there may be no justification for such an assumption.

Especially rampant in group settings, false consensus biases can make us
accept that the opinions, preferences, and values of our own group match
those of the larger population -- since group members reach a consensus
and rarely encounter those who dispute it, they tend to believe that
everyone thinks that way. This is the sort of groupthink that convinces
religious and political radicals they have greater support.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Temporal Bias
-------------

[Temporal
bias](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tragedy_of_the_commons#The_commons_dilemma)

A psychological tragedy of the commons, we have much difficulty
imagining ourselves and our global commons in the future, and thus we
struggle at altering our behaviours in order to safeguard said imagined
future.

This lack of self-control, where most of us would rather exchange
serious pains in the not-to-distant future for menial pleasures in the
moment, personifies the impulsive decision-making that has led to the
financial meltdown, urban saturation, political corruption, and general
slighting of imminent environmental cataclysms.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Conclusion
==========

With all this narcissism, egotism, prejudice, conformity, pessimism, and
impulsiveness, it's a wonder that we've made it this far -- yet here we
stand, alive and kicking, just as irrationally as ever.

But if there's something positive to draw from these realisations, it's
that the content and direction of cognitive biases are not arbitrary --
once exposed, these psychological deficiencies can be [successfully
mitigated and
controlled](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cognitive_bias_mitigation).

So while the majority of us may be prone to these errors in rational
judgement, we can also be more aware of them. And who knows, if we can
manage to re-rationalise how we think, act, and treat one another,
perhaps our politics will follow suit.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>

*Follow Adam Kingsmith on Twitter:
[www.twitter.com/akingsmith](http://www.twitter.com/akingsmith)*

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="display: none;">

Summary: These seemingly irrational flaws in judgement can lead to
perpetual distortion, inaccurate judgement, and illogical
interpretation -- all of which are key ingredients in the widening of
cultural rifts, the deepening of global disparity gaps, and the general
intensifying of political upheavals. Tags: 6, cognitive, biases, that,
make, politics, irrational, canada, politics Source:
<http://www.huffingtonpost.ca/adam-kingsmith/cognitive-bias-politics_b_3077740.html>
Parent: Consulting(.<span
class="wikiword">[HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.HomePage?action=print)</span>)
includeme:[Consulting.HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.HomePage?action=print)
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles)

</div>

Page saved at: Mon, 15 Apr 2013 00:06:53 -0500

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
