<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:Here are some organizations that can help with oragnizational
change, either learning, consulting or managing.
Parent:(Consulting.)<span
class="wikiword">[ChangeManagement](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.ChangeManagement?action=print)</span>
<span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[ChangeManagement](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.ChangeManagement?action=print)
Categories:[Links](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Links) Tags:
organizational change

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

[The MIT Organizational Learning Network](http://learning.mit.edu/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The **MIT Center for Organizational Learning's** public World Wide Web
site, which is dedicated to the free exchange of ideas and dissemination
of knowledge about organizational learning.

Some of the features of the MIT Organizational Learning Network include:

-   An "Idea Exchange", where members of the global learning community
    can submit ideas for new organizational learning methods and tools;
-   A hypertext "tour" of organizational learning concepts;
-   A regularly updated audio spot entitled "Just Some Thoughts" from
    Peter Senge;
-   Interviews with important members of the global organizational
    learning community;
-   A repository of the Center's working papers and publications;
-   Excerpts from *The Fifth Discipline Fieldbook.*

<div class="vspace">

</div>

[Innovative Thinking Network](http://www.thinksmart.com/)
---------------------------------------------------------

an organization devoted to new ways of thinking and bringing about
human-centered change. They have a special feature, the [*Good Morning,
Thinkers!*](http://www.thinksmart.com/itn/goodmorning.html) weekly
mailing, a brain wake-up exercise for the week.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

[Creative Learning Technologies, Inc.](http://www.primenet.com/~clt/)
---------------------------------------------------------------------

*(from their home page:)* a virtual networking corporation dedicated to
the integration of creativity, continuous learning and modern
technologies. [Their] mission is to ignite the continuous learning
process by being a catalyst for personal & group creativity. [They]
integrate the latest research in the areas of creativity and learning
with innovative technologies that accelerate & enhance the learning
process. By infusing creative thinking techniques into the learning
process, [they can] show you ways to keep your learning alive and
maximize your success.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

[Renaissance Business Associates](http://www.rbai.com/rbai/)
------------------------------------------------------------

*(from RBA's home page:)* (RBA), is an international association of
people committed to demonstrating the power & effectiveness of integrity
in their lives through elevating the human spirit at work.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

[Synergy Central](http://www.synergycentral.com/)
-------------------------------------------------

*from Synergy Central's home page:* SynergyCentral is a global network
of entrepreneurs, visionaries, thought leaders, change agents and
pioneers who are passionately committed to the empowerment,
transformation and self-actualization of individuals and organizations.

We are building a global virtual community of those who are passionate
about living life to the fullest in every way, and enjoying the leverage
derived from collaboration

</div>
