<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:the power of having good questions Parent:(Consulting.)<span
class="wikiword">[ChangeManagement](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.ChangeManagement?action=print)</span>
<span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[ChangeManagement](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.ChangeManagement?action=print)
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles) Tags:
questions, books

</div>

Thanks to Tom Wujec in his outstanding new book, [5 Star
Mind](http://www.goodreads.com/book/title/5%20Star%20Mind) (Doubleday,
1995), for this story about the power of creative questioning.

When Rembrandt's famous painting, "The Night Watch," was restored and
returned to Amsterdam's <span
class="wikiword">[RijksMuseum](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.RijksMuseum?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.RijksMuseum?action=edit)</span>,
the curators performed a simple, yet remarkable, experiment. They asked
visitors to submit questions about the painting. The curators then
prepared answers to over 50 questions according to popularity.

Some of these questions focused on issues which curators usually don't
like to include: How much does the painting cost? Has this painting
every been forged? Are there mistakes in the painting? Other questions
focused on traditional artistic issues: Why did Rembrandt paint the
subject? Who were the people in the painting? What techniques did
Rembrandt pioneer in this particular work?

In a room next to the gallery which held the painting, the curators
papered the walls with these questions (and answers). Visitors had to
pass through this room before entering the gallery. The curious outcome
was that the average length of time people spent viewing the painting
increased from six minutes to over half an hour. Visitors alternated
between reading questions and answers and examining the painting. They
said that the questions encouraged them to look longer, to look closer
and to remember more. The questions helped them create richer ideas
about the painting and to see the painting in new ways. Like a series of
magnets, the questions attracted the visitors' thoughts to fresh ideas.

Tom Wujec, also the author of [Pumping
Ions](http://www.goodreads.com/book/title/Pumping%20Ions), can be
reached at <span class="_deob"><span class="_t">tomwujec<span
class="_a"> [snail] </span>passport<span class="_d"> [period]
</span>ca</span> -\> <span class="_m">mailto:tomwujec<span class="_a">
[snail] </span>passport<span class="_d"> [period]
</span>ca</span></span>

</div>
