<div id="wikitext">

Over at [**A List Apart**](http://www.alistapart.com), [Inayaili de
Leon](http://www.alistapart.com/authors/d/inayailideleon) offers up a
great article on inter-team communication: [*Becoming Better
Communicators*](http://www.alistapart.com/articles/becoming-better-communicators/).

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="indent">

Good communication skills are what allow us to sell our work, justify
our decisions, and stand behind our positions. This along with doing
good work is how we gain the trust and respect of colleagues, bosses,
and clients??something every design professional aspires to. And it??s
why all these little pieces of communication we constantly deliver are
so important.So what??s so hard about communication, and how can we get
better at it?

</div>

Good question. We communicate constantly among our teams, both in person
and remotely. The question hinges mainly on trust.

Inayaili goes on to say some really important things, including:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="indent">

**People need human contact and interaction to flourish.** ...digital
communication makes us miss all the benefits that come from
communicating to while being in someone??s physical presence:
<div class="indent">

*The human moment ... is a regulator: when you take it away, people??s
primitive instincts can get the better of them. Just as in the anonymity
of an automobile, where stable people can behave like crazed maniacs, so
too on a keyboard: courteous people can become rude and abrupt. (Fram
[The Human Moment At
Work](http://hbr.org/1999/01/the-human-moment-at-work/ar/1) by Edward M.
Hallowell, HBR, Jan 1999)*Digital communication removes all the cues
that mitigate worry. As more and more people work like [we] do, alone
from home offices, without much face-to-face interaction, it??s
important that we??re aware of this both in ourselves and others.

</div>

</div>

The answer lies, obviously, in getting face-time with the people you
work with. As a consultant, I found this to be tremendously true.
Initial meetings with clients (beyond the logistical setting-things-up
stage) were always face-to-face. This firmly established each other as
real, credible people, with full "3-D" effects. Subsequent visits were
necessary to gather high-fidelity information that would also be seen as
credible in the results we were to give. Remote conversations could
happen more easily and with better confidence among all parties because
we had already established the relationship via in-person contact.

Inayaili goes on in the same vein:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="indent">

One answer comes from 37signals, which hires great talent regardless of
geography and encourages others to do the same. In their book
[Rework](http://37signals.com/rework/), founders Jason Fried and David
Heinemeier Hansson report that meeting in person is important for remote
teams.

</div>

The article goes on to make some extremely important points about first
accepting that humans are largely *emotional* creatures, and make
stunning *connections* between events that may have no connection, and
*invent (or hallucinate)* events and connections that never happened.
The importance of meeting people can dispell at least some of the
"us-vs-them" mentality that is engendered when individuals and groups
are dispersed; it doesn't get rid of all of it, and if the meetings do
not cause the dispersed members to come together, or *gel*, it can
actually further the rift. Such are the dangers of so-called
"Team-Building Activities".

What's vitally important in these sorts of meetings is not that everyone
get to say their piece, but that everyone go in with an expectation of
*understanding* everyone else. This changes the dynamic from one of "I'm
going to tell them what's so" to "I'm going to find out what they think
and see if we can agree". Obviously this is precarious, because it's not
ever guaranteed that this is going to work. The opposite, though, never
works, unless the point is to break up the team.

Inayaili talks about this process:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="indent">

Instead of showing your work to your colleagues with a few mumbled words
and a shrug and expecting them to get its sheer brilliance, it??s
important to involve them from the start, making everyone feel invested
and part of the solution. Map out the future you see in front of you,
and make them walk the same journey.

</div>

Very highly recommended. Please go read.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="display: none;">

Summary: Saved article on my wordpress blog: <http://tamouse.org>, on a
very good article I found on the A List Apart website about making group
and team communication work well. Tags: communication, teams, group
dynamics, trust, saved page Source:
<http://tamouse.org/2012/12/02/great-article-at-a-list-apart-on-group-communication/>
Parent:Consulting(.<span
class="wikiword">[HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.HomePage?action=print)</span>)
includeme:[Consulting.HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Consulting.HomePage?action=print)
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles)

</div>

Page saved at: Sun, 02 Dec 2012 12:41:03 -0600

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
