<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:a shaggy dog story Parent:(Main.)<span
class="wikiword">[HumourousStuff](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.HumourousStuff?action=print)</span>
<span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[HumourousStuff](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.HumourousStuff?action=print)
Categories:[Humour](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Humour),
[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles) Tags: shaggy dog
story, Descartes

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Descartes, supreme among philosophers
-------------------------------------

Although "I Think, Therefore I Am" was the line on which Descartes
achieved his meteoric rise to stardom, that was not the line he actually
wrote. So I can't tell you how much pleasure it gives me to put the
record straight, if only for poor Rene's sake.

You may well wonder how it was that Rene managed to reach Number One
among philosophy's all-time chart-toppers. Well, as I've indicated, it
was all due to the widespread misunderstanding about his line "I Think,
Therefore I Am". And to trace the EXACT origin of that I must take you,
by the magic of radio, back to the New Year's Eve party which Madame
Descartes threw to celebrate the advent of 1636.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Here's how it really happened
-----------------------------

She'd decided that as it was to be an informal affair what she'd serve
would be a "buffet" (a French word meaning "we've got more people than
chairs"). As she also intended it to be a late do, with the guests not
arriving until around 11 o'clock, she ran up an enormous bunch of that
Gallic imitation of bacon-and-egg flan they call "Quiches".

However, Madame made it clear to Rene that although the quiches would be
put out on the sideboard in advance -- "what I DON'T want is people
helping themselves all evening and treading their crumbs into the
Aubusson. So I'm relying on you to see to it that nobody starts digging
into them until at least an hour after we've seen the New Year in. Then
they can take plates and eat properly!"

Ironic, isn't it? The founder of the Cartesian School relegated to the
position of Securicor for bacon-and-egg flans. As he said to Father
Dinet -- I haven't mentioned him, but he was a Jesuit priest who was
about Rene's only real mate at that time -- as he said to him, "I can't
think this is in any way advancing my career. Being sat down here at the
sideboard till one o'clock in the morning, no way will there be any
philosophising done tomorrow. I'll be like a limp rag."

To which the good Father rejoined an extremely practical rejoiner. "Then
why don't you use this as WORKING time? Take a pen and write while
you're sitting here, set your mind for lofty thoughts and if any arrive,
jot them down ona paper serviette.

"Not a bad idea at all," said Descartes. "Give us a borrow of your
quill."

So it was that for the next hour or so, there by the sideboard the two
friends sat and Descartes was able to get off quite a few zingers
relating to corporeal rationality. It was while he was putting into
shape an eternal verity on adventitious volition that he glanced up and,
to his horror, saw that Father Dinet had absent-mindedly helped himself
to a quiche and was quietly munching it.

About to open his mouth and exclaim "watch it!" They're not supposed to
be eaten yet," he became aware of something else. There, not two yards
away -- well within earshot -- stood his wife!!

There was only one thing to do. Stealthily, Descartes took another
serviette, scribbled out his warning, then equally furtively, pushed the
serviette under Father Dinet's nose.

So it was that the whole 300-year-old misunderstanding originated. That
message -- the one which Father Dinet was later to publish to the world
as "I Think Therefore I Am" -- all it referred to was the time-ban on
the bacon-and-egg flans.

The truth is, what Descartes actually wrote was I THINK THEY'RE FOR 1
A.M.

</div>
