<div id="wikitext">

*Old, but still useful.*

From: <span
class="wikiword">[IRSTaxNews](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.IRSTaxNews)</span>@irstaxnews.net\
Subject: Your 12/31/2000 Tax Return\
Date: Mon, 19 Feb 2001 18:26:00 -0600

The Internal Revenue Service strongly urges you to file your tax return
electronically. It is the goal of the IRS to have more than 80% of
taxpayers use an electronic means in which to file. The error rates are
lower and your return and refund are processed much faster. Consider the
following Internet sites to help you with your tax return this year.

<http://www.irs.gov/> : This is the Internal Revenue Service's website
which has additional information and publications available to help you
with your tax filing requirements.

~~<http://www.preptax.com/> . This site has an easy, step-by-step method
of walking~~ ~~you through your tax return. Even if you are not sure
what forms you need to file,~~ ~~this site will make it easy for you to
figure out. This site charges \$9.95 to~~ ~~complete and print your
federal return. Electronic filing is also included at no~~ ~~extra
charge. This is the most complete site evaluated since it prepares all~~
~~income tax state returns (includes state electronic filing for all
states which offer~~ ~~electronic filing). This site is the only site
which offers online preparation~~ ~~of complex business corporate,
partnership, non-profit, trust, and various other~~ ~~entity type of
returns.~~

<http://www.taxhawk.com/> . This site offers an A-Z list of tax
deductions, tax tips and strategies to help you file your return. The
site also offers a "self-preparation" tool that will print and/or
electronically file returns. The price is \$9.95 each for federal and
state returns. There is no additional charge for electronic filing or
additional state returns. All individual state returns are offered. No
online corporate return capability.

<http://www.hrblock.com/> . This site offers four methods with which to
prepare your return, most notably is their "walk up" tax prep service in
one of their thousands of offices nationwide. You can use this link to
find an office near you. If you wish to use their internet service, you
can input your tax information through their web site and they will
prepare your federal return for \$99.95. Also available is a
self-preparation online tax tool for \$19.95 per return. Their internet
site supports the more popular states although no corporate,
partnership, or entity returns are offered.

<http://www.intuit.com/> . This site offers the TurboTax
self-preparation tax package both in the CD format and via the internet.
The internet version allows you to prepare, print and electronically
file your federal and state return for \$24.90. This price will increase
by 25% after April 1, 2001. This site offers availability of all state
returns for individual taxpayers only. No corporate, partnership or
other entity returns are supported.

<http://www.1040form.com/> . This site advertises that it offers the
easiest program on the Internet for \$9.95 per return. You enter your
information through an online interview process similar to other sites.
You may print or electronically file your returns. All individual states
are offered, but the site does not have the capability of online
corporate, partnership or other entity returns.

---

The IRSTAXNEWS has been published to increase the awareness of
electronically filing tax returns and to provide important news to help
taxpayers reduce errors and take advantage of all of the deductions
legally available to them. If you do not want to receive additional
mailings from the IRSTAXNEWS, please reply to this email and you will
not receive future mailings. Reply to: remove@irstaxnews.net

<span class="frame lfloat"> **Categories:**
[Finance](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Finance)</span>

</div>
