<div id="wikitext">

<div class="vspace">

</div>

How's This For Nostalgia? {style="text-align: center;"}
-------------------------

All the girls had ugly gym uniforms? And wore tennis shoes not \$200
Nike's!

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.12.jpg)

</div>

It took three minutes for the TV to warm up?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.10.jpg)

</div>

Nobody owned a purebred dog?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.34.jpg)

</div>

When a quarter was a decent allowance?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.10.1.jpg)

</div>

You'd reach into a muddy gutter for a penny?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.14.jpg)

</div>

Your Mom wore nylons that came in two pieces?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.32.jpg)

</div>

You got your windshield cleaned, oil checked, and gas pumped, without
asking, all for free, every time? And you didn't pay for air? And, you
got trading stamps to boot?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.3.jpg)

</div>

Laundry detergent had free glasses, dishes or towels hidden inside the
box?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.21.jpg)

</div>

It was considered a great privilege to be taken out to dinner at a real
restaurant with your parents?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.38.jpg)

</div>

They threatened to keep kids back a grade if they failed . . . and they
did it!

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.19.jpg)

</div>

When a 57 Chevy was everyone's dream car . . . to cruise, peel out, lay
rubber or watch submarine races, and people went steady?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.0.jpg)

</div>

No one ever asked where the car keys were because they were always in
the car, in the ignition, and the doors were never locked?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.24.jpg)

</div>

Lying on your back in the grass with your friends . . . and saying
things like, 'That cloud looks like a . . . '?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.23.jpg)

</div>

Playing baseball with no adults to help kids with the rules of the game?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.18.jpg)

</div>

Stuff from the store came without safety caps and hermetic seals because
no one had yet tried to poison a perfect stranger . . .

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.11.jpg)

</div>

And with all our progress, don't you just wish, just once, you could
slip back in time and savor the slower pace, and share it with the
children of today .

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.43.jpg)

</div>

When being sent to the principal's office was nothing compared to the
fate that awaited the student at home?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.33.jpg)

</div>

Basically we were in fear for our lives, but it wasn't because of
drive-by shootings, drugs, gangs, etc . Our parents and grandparents
were a much bigger threat! But we survived because their love was
greater than the threat .

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.30.jpg)

</div>

And our summers were filled with bike rides, Hula Hoops, and visits to
the pool, and eating Kool-Aid powder with sugar .

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.31.jpg)

</div>

Didn't that feel good, just to go back and say, 'Yeah, I remember that'?

I am sharing this with you today because it ended with a Double Dog Dare
to pass it on . . . To remember what a Double Dog Dare is, read on . . .
And remember that the perfect age is somewhere between old enough to
know better and too young to care .

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.44.jpg)

</div>

Send this on to someone who can still remember Howdy Doody and The
Peanut Gallery, the Lone Ranger, The Shadow Knows, Nellie Bell , Roy and
Dale, Trigger and Buttermilk .

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.7.jpg)

</div>

How Many Of These Do You Remember? Candy cigarettes . . .

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.42.jpg)

</div>

Wax Coke-shaped bottles with colored sugar water inside . . .

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.1.jpg)

</div>

Soda pop machines that dispensed glass bottles . . .

Coffee shops with Table Side Jukeboxes . . .

Blackjack, Clove and Teaberry chewing gum . . .

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.6.jpg)

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.37.jpg)

</div>

Home milk delivery in glass bottles with cardboard stoppers . . .

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.20.jpg)

</div>

Newsreels before the movie . . .

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.25.jpg)

</div>

Telephone numbers with a word prefix . . . ( Yukon 2-601) . Party lines
. . .

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.26.jpg)

</div>

Peashooters . . .

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.39.jpg)

</div>

Hi-Fi's & 45 RPM records . . .

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.17.jpg)

</div>

78 RPM records . . .

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.78.jpg)

</div>

Green Stamps . . .

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.13.jpg)

</div>

Mimeograph paper . . .

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.36.jpg)

</div>

The Fort Apache Play Set . . .

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.8.jpg)

</div>

Do You Remember a Time When Decisions were made by going . . .
'eeny-meeny-miney-moe'?

Mistakes were corrected by simply exclaiming, 'Do Over!'?

'Race issue' meant arguing about who ran the fastest?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.28.jpg)

</div>

Catching The Fireflies Could Happily Occupy An Entire Evening?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.27.jpg)

</div>

It wasn't odd to have two or three 'Best Friends' . . .

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.41.jpg)

</div>

Having a Weapon in School meant being caught with a Slingshot?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.35.jpg)

</div>

Saturday morning cartoons weren't 30-minute commercials for action
figures?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.2.jpg)

</div>

'Oly-oly-oxen-free' made perfect sense?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.4.jpg)

</div>

Spinning around, getting dizzy, and falling down was cause for giggles?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.40.jpg)

</div>

The Worst Embarrassment was being picked last for a team?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.16.jpg)

</div>

War was a card game?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.22.jpg)

</div>

Baseball cards in the spokes transformed any bike into a motorcycle?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.9.jpg)

</div>

Taking drugs meant orange flavored chewable aspirin?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.29.jpg)

</div>

Water balloons were the ultimate weapon?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.TheGoodOldDays.15.jpg)

</div>

If you can remember most or all of these, Then You Have Lived!!!!!!!

Pass this on to anyone who may need a break from their 'Grown-Up' Life
...

I Double-Dog-Dare-Ya!

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
