<div id="wikitext">

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="hero" style="text-align: center;">

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Main.GoblinShark.goblinshark-ani.gif)

</div>

*Mitsukurina owstoni*, also known as the goblin shark, doesn't look like
any shark you've seen before. These deep sea denizens can grow up to 13
feet and have a pinkish-gray coloration and a long, flattened snout. And
when they feed, they become scarier than any Great White.

Normally, the *M. owstoni*'s jaws -- which are lined with sharp,
needle-like teeth -- sit flush with the underside of its head. But to
capture its prey, the shark [thrusts its jaw
forward](http://www.flmnh.ufl.edu/fish/Gallery/Descript/goblinshark/goblinshark.html),
almost to the end of its snout, like a deep sea version of Hungry Hungry
Hippos. Based on the seven specimens retrieved with identifiable stomach
contents, as well as the slender shape of its mouth, scientists think
the shark's diet probably includes teleost or finned fish, squid, and
crabs.

Since it was first discovered in 1898 off of Yokohama, Japan, fewer than
50 goblin shark specimens have been found. (One shark, captured alive in
2007, was exhibited at an aquarium in Japan for a short time before it
died.) Scientists believe M. owstoni lives at depths from 130 feet to
4,265 feet -- which means they probably won't be coming to a beach near
you anytime soon. But if you want to see the shark in action, there's
always [YouTube](http://youtu.be/nXJuQadirE0).

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="display: none;">

Summary: These deep sea denizens can grow up to 13 feet and have a
pinkish-gray coloration and a long, flattened snout. And when they feed,
they become scarier than any Great White. Parent:(Main.)Critters
includeme:
[Main.Critters](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.Critters?action=print)
Categories:[Critters](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Critters) Tags:
shark, goblin shark, critters Source: Mental Floss Watercooler Ammo
newsletter Posted: August 23, 2013

</div>

</div>
