<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:If God decided to have another flood and called on Noah again...
Parent:(Main.)<span
class="wikiword">[HumourousStuff](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.HumourousStuff?action=print)</span>
includeme:[HumourousStuff](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.HumourousStuff?action=print)
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles) Tags:
noah, god, flood, 2011

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

A Modern Parable
----------------

In the year 2011, the Lord came unto Noah and said: Once again the earth
has become wicked and over-populated, and I see the end of all flesh
before me.

Build another Ark and save 2 of every living thing along with a few good
humans.

He gave Noah the blueprints, saying: **"You have 6 months to build the
Ark before I will start the unending rain for 40 days and 40 nights."**

Six months later, the Lord looked down and saw Noah weeping in his
yard - but no Ark.

**"Noah!"** He roared, **"I'm about to start the rain! Where is the
Ark?"**

"Forgive me, Lord," begged Noah, "but things have changed.

"I needed a building permit.

"I've been arguing with the inspector about the need for a sprinkler
system.

"My neighbours claim that I've violated the neighbourhood zoning laws by
building the Ark in my yard, and exceeding the height limitations. We
had to go to the Development Appeal Board for a decision.

"Then, the Department of Transportation demanded a bond be posted for
the future costs of moving power lines and other overhead obstructions,
to clear the passage for the Ark??s move to the sea.

"I told them that the sea would be coming to us, but they would hear
nothing of it.

"Getting the wood was another problem. There's a ban on cutting local
trees in order to save the spotted owl.

"I tried to convince the environmentalists that I needed the wood to
save the owls - but no go!

"When I started gathering the animals, an animal rights group sued me.
They insisted that I was confining wild animals against their will. They
argued that accommodations were too restrictive, and that it is cruel
and inhumane to put so many animals in a confined space.

"Then the EPA ruled that I couldn't build the Ark until they'd conducted
an environmental impact study on your proposed flood. I'm still trying
to resolve a complaint with the Human Rights Commission on how many
minorities I'm supposed to hire for my building crew.

"Immigration is checking the status of most of the people who want to
work.

"The Trades Unions say I can't use my sons. They insist I have to hire
only Union workers with Ark-building experience.

"To make matters worse, they seized all my assets, claiming I'm trying
to leave the country illegally with endangered species.

"So, forgive me, Lord, but it would take at least 10 years for me to
finish this Ark."

Suddenly the skies cleared, the sun began to shine, and a double rainbow
stretched across the sky...

Noah looked up in wonder and asked, "You mean you're not going to
destroy the world?"

**"No,"** said the Lord.

**"Your government beat me to it."**

</div>
