<div id="wikitext">

One day, the teacher Nan-in was visited by a famous intellectual.

Nan-in was admired for his wisdom, his prudence and the simplicity of
his life. He accepted in silence that some men were sitting with him in
the evening, but they should not bother him after meditation. Then, he
seemed serious and even grim, but it wasn??t more than needed
rehabilitation while working in his garden, peeling potatoes or mending
clothes.

When the prestigious intellectual arrived, he announced he didn??t have
much time because he had to return to his duties at the university.

He greeted the Teacher and, without more introductions, he asked him for
the Zen. Nan-in offered him the tea and served it with all the calm of
the world. And although the cup of the visitor was already full, the
Teacher continued pouring it. The intellectual watched the overflow
until he no longer could restrain himself.

??It is overfull. No more will go in!??

??Like this cup,?? Nan-in responded without losing the composure nor
leaving his amiable smile, ??you are full of your own opinions and
speculations. How can I show you Zen unless you first empty your cup???

Angry, the intellectual rose and, with a mere inclination of head, he
took leave without saying a word. While Teacher picked up the pieces of
porcelain and cleaned the ground, a young person approached to help him.

??Oh, Teacher, how much sufficiency! How difficult it must be for the
intellectuals to understand the simplicity of the Zen??.

??Not less than for many young people who arrive loaded with ambition
and they have not strived to cultivate the disciplines of the study. At
least, the intellectuals have already made part of the way and have
something to let go??.

??Then, Teacher, what is the correct attitude???

??Not to judge, and to remain kind??.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:a famous Zen story Parent:(Main.)<span
class="wikiword">[SpiritualityAndBeliefs](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.SpiritualityAndBeliefs?action=print)</span>
includeme:[Main.SpiritualityAndBeliefs](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.SpiritualityAndBeliefs?action=print)
Categories:[Humanism](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Humanism) Tags:
zen, tea story

</div>

</div>
