<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:a collection of stuff to look at sometime Parent:(Main.)<span
class="wikiword">[MiscStuff](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.MiscStuff?action=print)</span>
<span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[MiscStuff](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.MiscStuff?action=print)
Categories:[Links](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Links) Tags: stuff

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

-   [05/16-12:11] ---impy--- Why?. Because. love. always. wins. It does?
    It does. Ok. I love you.:
    <http://www.veteranscava.org/photos_that_will_never_make_the.htm>

-- [tamara](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Profiles.Tamara?action=print) - 16
May 2005

<div class="vspace">

</div>

-   Investigate using Crossover Office and WINE on Linux. Consider
    possibility of converting tamarak3 into a Linux server that can run
    windows desktop application when needed (Quicken, <span
    class="wikiword">[TurboTax](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.TurboTax?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.TurboTax?action=edit)</span>,
    Word, etc) (Crossover Office is a commercialization of WINE) --
    [tamara](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Profiles.Tamara?action=print) -
    08 May 2005
    -   <http://www.codeweavers.com/products/cxoffice/>
    -   <http://www.winehq.org/>

    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

-   From O'Reilly Network Newsletter, 26-Apr-05 --
    [tamara](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Profiles.Tamara?action=print) -
    04 May 2005

<div class="indent">

Mac Mini Eye for the Linux-Windows Guy

</div>

<div class="indent">

Todd had no intention of giving up his Linux and Windows boxes to become
a "Mac switcher." But he had heard good things about OS X, so the Mac
mini presented the opportunity for him to become a Mac-tryer. He details
his experiences here.
<div class="indent">

<http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/a/mac/2005/04/19/mac_mini.html>

</div>

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

-   From O'Reilly Network Newsletter, 3-May-05 --
    [tamara](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Profiles.Tamara?action=print) -
    04 May 2005

<div class="indent">

Panther Maintenance Tips

</div>

<div class="indent">

Yes, Mac OS X is incredibly stable, but here's a comprehensive list of
tips to keep it that way for the duration of your OS install. What? You
don't do any maintenance at all? Well, read on. That might change.
<div class="indent">

<http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/a/mac/2003/11/21/maintenance.html>

</div>

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

-   From O'Reilly Network Linux Newsletter, 2-May-05: --
    [tamara](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Profiles.Tamara?action=print) -
    04 May 2005

<div class="indent">

Success is a nice problem to have in F/OSS projects. Unfortunately, the

</div>

kind of success that necessitates setting up a nonprofit to manage a
project is less nice. (Your editor has watched a roommate set up a
nonprofit; it's messy.) Fortunately, the same culture that values
sharing code and ideas values sharing information about the process.
David Boswell, who helped to launch mozdev.org, has written "How to
Build a Nonprofit for Your Community" full of advice on organizing
support organizations:

<div class="indent">

<http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/a/policy/2005/04/28/nonprofits.html>

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

-   From O'Reilly Network Linux Newsletter, 2-May-05: --
    [tamara](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Profiles.Tamara?action=print) -
    04 May 2005

<div class="indent">

Of course, if you write web applications, distributing and building your

</div>

software is likely not your first problem. Providing a good interface to
users may be more important. Unless you have savvy users who prefer
editing the contents of text areas in workable editors such as Emacs or
Vim, you might consider using Kupu instead. Robert Jones explains how to
use this <span
class="wikiword">[JavaScript](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.JavaScript?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.JavaScript?action=edit)</span>-based
rich-text editor in your own applications:

<div class="indent">

<http://www.onlamp.com/pub/a/onlamp/2005/04/28/kupu.html>

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

-   [05/02-15:02] (F) ..<span
    class="wikiword">[GypsyWomen](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.GypsyWomen?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.GypsyWomen?action=edit)</span>...
    (F): <http://www.2012.com.au/What_makes_you.html#anchor365589>

-- [tamara](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Profiles.Tamara?action=print) - 02
May 2005

<div class="vspace">

</div>

-   Free Music Downloads from Amazon: --
    [tamara](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Profiles.Tamara?action=print) -
    26 Apr 2005
    -   <http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/browse/-/468646/102-7521328-7218564>
    -   <http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/browse/-/561964/gizmodo-20/102-7521328-7218564>

    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

-   From
    [CallahansBar](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.CallahansBar?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.CallahansBar?action=edit)
    via Oberon:
    <http://www.edu.gov.on.ca/eng/document/curricul/philoso/philoso.html> --
    [tamara](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Profiles.Tamara?action=print) -
    14 Dec 2004
    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

-   From
    [CallahansBar](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.CallahansBar?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.CallahansBar?action=edit)
    \<tesselene\> tamouse\_werk:
    <http://archive.gamespy.com/comics/dorktower/> --
    [tamara](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Profiles.Tamara?action=print) -
    29 Sep 2004
    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

-   Toe socks: --
    [tamara](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Profiles.Tamara?action=print) -
    20 Sep 2004
    -   ~~<http://www.shushans.com/toesocks.html>~~ only 9-11
        **ladies**' - i need 9-11 **men's**
    -   ~~<http://www.brandsonsale.com/toe-socks.html>~~ all they have
        are smalls

    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

-   \<shadocat1313\> @ \#callahans:
    <http://www.hotink.com/HST/kp01.html> --
    [tamara](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Profiles.Tamara?action=print) -
    22 Jul 2004

</div>
