<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:day two of trip Parent:(Main.)Israel1996 <span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[Israel1996](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.Israel1996?action=print)
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles) Tags:
israel

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

2:17 pm Israel Local time
-------------------------

In flight, and what a flight! Long hours spent sitting. I feel pretty
good, but it is a drag, still. Just over 2 hours to go, now, and we will
drop into the country.

I am so glad I didn't wear my contacts for the flight. My eyes are tired
enough without the added burden.

The aircraft is really cool, it has in-seat TV! We get about 16 channels
with audio doubled in Hebrew and English, or 8 programs.

The plane is completely full, which is saying a lot, since I'm in row
47, and it isn't the back of the plane. The last three rows are for
smoking, so I'm glad I'm far away from them. Even for a wide-body jet,
the seats are still cramped. I gave up my aisle seat so the lady in the
middle could sit next to her friends. It hasn't been too bad, but I wish
I had more elbow room.

Poor John. My roomie has a bit of a cold. He's taking sudafed, and lots
of liquid so he should be all right. I hope what he has isn't
contagious. I don't want to come down with anything.

They're now starting breakfast service. It smells awful, I hope it isn't
fish.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

7:01 pm Israel Time
-------------------

We in! We made it at last. Passport control was another crunch, but fast
once you got there. No questions about anything: purpose of the visit,
length of stay, anything to declare. Then though another cattle shute to
the baggage claim area. The lines at the baggage claim were astounding.
It took over an hour to get all our luggage, boxes and bags. The mob of
people waiting at the carousel was also astounding, although reasonable
given the size of the airplane.

Once we had our luggage, we had to go through customs, but thy weren't
checking any bags. I guess the security on the other end makes up for
the lack on this en. I surmise they are much more interested in stopping
terrorists than smugglers.

We finally got out of there, but there was no one to meet us or guide
us, so we just sort of wandered until we clumped together outside by the
buses, and our bus just happend to show up.

So now we're en route to Tiberias to our hotel for check-in, dinner and
sleep. It is already dark here (the sun sets sooner in the lower
lattitudes' winter.

So we're here - it doesn't "feel" like a foreign country yet, at least
not like France or England feel. Perhaps I'll get more of that sense as
I get to see the place and experience the sights, sounds, smells, and
feel of the place.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

10/21/96 11:07 pm
-----------------

We are at the hotel, finally; fed, bags in, and I'm ready for bed. The
only problem right now is that John is not here. I wanted to unpack, but
thought I'd let him pick where he wants to hang his stuff. I'm getting a
little frustrated because I would like to go to bed. So where is he?

The bus ride from Tel Aviv was long, about two and a half hours with a
potty break. The bus driver's name is Abraham. It was dark when we left
the airport, and the scenery was hard to see. Gilla, our guide, pointed
out some sights best she could, but it wasn't much to go on. I'm really
looking forward to tomorrow.

Right outside the hotel are some ruins of a 17th century fortification,
constructed by Bedouins who controlled this territory at that point.
There is also a Byzantine monastery inside of that.

The view from our hotel is great, looking out upon the Sea of Galilee. I
still have less of a sense of "otherness" in israel than I've had
elsewhere, or perhaps it's more a sense of "otherness"?? I can quickly
get attuned to the Carribean, france, Ialy, England. In fact, I think
Israel is the first place I haven't tuned in to quickly.

</div>
