<div id="wikitext">

Dzogchen, Ati or "highest" yoga, represents the pinnacle of theTibetan
Buddhist system of Nine Yanas, or vehicles for liberation. Beingthe
highest of the vehicles it is also the simplest one. Its essence isthe
purest, clearest form of meditation or mind training. Such mind
trainingis critical not only for grasping new information and knowledge
like thatpresented by the science of time, but even more importantly,
for obtaininga fresh, uncluttered glimpse of your own life and being in
the universe.

The point of meditation is to experience directly without any kind of
perceptuallyconditioned filters whatsoever. The meditation experience is
no differentthan the nature of reality. When we practice meditation
sufficiently wecan begin to see that the natural state of mind is always
present. It isour mental concepts that keep us from experiencing this
natural state ofmind.

Dzogchen describes this natural sate of mind as possessing three
qualities:clarity, luminosity, and unobstructedness. In terms of the
Cube of the Law,clarity corresponds to the plane of mind; luminosity to
the plane of spirit;and unobstructedness to the plane of will. These
distinctions are interpenetratingand self-existing, and so there is no
need to look for them.

Doing without doing, trying without trying, the point is to always be
inthe here-and-now of the eternally abiding present moment. This present
momentof your here-and-now mind is the center point of the
fourth-dimensionalradial matrix. Tibetan tradition refers to this as the
Mandala principle,which includes the dance of the "Five Wisdom Sisters,"
the cyclicmanifestations of the energy of the phenomenal world. These
intrinsicallymeaningful patterns of mind and energy need no further
significance beyondthe moment in which they appear. "The everyday
practice of Dzogchenis just everyday life itself..." Practice Dzogchen
and become who youare!

The everyday practice of Dzogchen is simply to develop aComplete
Care-free Acceptance; an Openness to all situations without limit. You
should realize Openness as the 'playground' of your emotions and
relateto people without artificiality, manipulation or strategy.

You should experience everything Totally; never withdrawing into
yourselvesas marmots hide in their holes. This practice releases
tremendous Energywhich is usually constricted by the process of
maintaining fixed referencepoints. Referentiality is the process by
which we retreat from the <span
class="wikiword">[DirectExperience](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.DirectExperience?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.DirectExperience?action=edit)</span>
of everyday life.

Being Present in the moment may initially be fearful. But by
welcomingthe sensation of fear with Complete Openness you cut through
the barrierscreated by habitual emotional reaction patterns.

When you engage in the practice of Discovering Space, you should
developthe feeling of Opening yourselves out completely to the Entire
Universe. You should Open yourselves with Absolute Simplicity and
Nakedness of Mind. This is the powerful and ordinary practice of
dropping the mask of self-protection.

You shouldn't be split in your meditation between perception and field
ofperception. You shouldn't become like cats watching mice. You should
realizethat the purpose of meditation practice is not to go 'deeply into
yourselves'or withdraw from the world. Practice should be free and
non-conceptual,unrestricted by introspection and concentration.

Vast Unoriginated Self-Luminous Wisdom-Space is the Ground of Being -
thebeginning and end of confusion. Presence of Awareness in the <span
class="wikiword">[PrimordialState](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.PrimordialState?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.PrimordialState?action=edit)</span>
is free from bias toward enlightenment. This Ground of Being whichis
known as Pure or Original Mind is the source of the arising of all
phenomena. It is known as the Great Mother, as the Womb of Potentiality
in which allthings arise and dissolve in Natural Self-Perfectedness and
Absolute Spontaneity.

All aspects of phenomena are Completely Clear and Lucid. The whole
universeis Open and Unobstructed - everything is mutually
interpenetrating.

Seeing all things as Naked, Clear and Free from obscurations there is
nothingto attain or realize. The Nature of phenomena Appears Naturally
and isNaturally Present in Time-Transcending Awareness. Everything is
<span
class="wikiword">[NaturallyPerfect](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.NaturallyPerfect?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.NaturallyPerfect?action=edit)</span>
just as it is. All phenomena Appear in their in their uniquenessas part
of the continually-changing pattern. These patterns are vibrantwith
meaning and significance at every moment; yet there is no significancein
attaching to such meanings beyond the moment in which they present
themselves.

This is the dance of the five Wisdom-Sisters (the five Elements) in
whichmatter is a symbol of energy and Energy is a symbol of Emptiness.
You aresymbols of your own Enlightenment. With no effort or practice
whatsoeverLiberation or Enlightenment are already here.

The everyday practice of Dzogchen is just everyday life itself. Since
theundeveloped state does not exist, there is no need to behave in any
specialway or attempt to attain anything above and beyond what you
actually are. There should be no feeling of striving to reach some
'amazing goal' or'advanced state'.

To strive for some such state is a neurosis which only conditions us
andfunctions to obstruct the free flow of Mind. You should also avoid
thinkingof yourselves as bad or worthless people - you are Naturally
Free and Unconditioned! You are intrinsically Enlightened and lack
nothing!

When engaging in meditation practice you should feel it to be as
naturalas eating, breathing or defecating. It should not become a
specializedor formal event, bloated with seriousness and solemnity. You
should realizethat meditation transcends effort, practice, aims, goals
and the dualityof Liberation and non-Liberation. Meditation is always
ideal. This meansthat there is no need to correct anything. Since
everything that arisesis simply the play of Mind as such, there is no
unsatisfactory meditationand no need to judge thoughts as good or bad.

Therefore you should simply sit. Simply stay in your own place - in
yourown condition just as it is. Forgetting self-conscious feelings, you
donot have to think; "I am meditating". Your practice should bewithout
effort, without strain, without attempts to control or force andwithout
trying to become 'peaceful'.

If you find that you are disturbing yourselves in any of these ways,
stopmeditating and simply rest or relax for a while. Then resume your
meditation. If you have interesting experiences (which could be
interpreted as positiveresults) either during or after meditation, you
should avoid making anythingspecial of them. To spend time thinking
about experiences is simply a distractionand an attempt to become
unnatural. These experiences are simply Nyams(signs of practice) and
should simply be regarded as transient events. You should not attempt to
re-experience nyams because to do so only servesto distort the Natural
Spontaneity of Mind.

All phenomena are completely new and fresh; absolutely unique and
entirelyfree from all concepts of past, present and future. They are
experiencedin Timelessness.

The continual stream of new discovery, revelation and inspiration
whicharise at every moment are the manifestations of your Clarity. You
shouldlearn to see everyday life as Mandala - [Radial Matrix] - the
Luminous Fringesof Experience which Radiate Spontaneously from the Empty
Nature of yourBeing. The aspects of your Mandala are the day-to-day
objects of your lifeexperiences moving in the dance or play of the
universe. By this symbolismthe Inner Teacher reveals the Profound and
Ultimate Significance of Being. Therefore you should be Natural and
Spontaneous, Accepting and Learningfrom everything. This enables us to
See the ironic and amusing side ofevents that usually irritate us.

In meditation you can see through the illusion of past, present and
future- your experience becomes the continuity of Nowness. The past is
only anunreliable memory held in the present. The future is only a
projectionof your present conceptions. The present itself vanishes as
soon as youtry to grasp it. So why bother with attempting to

In meditation you can see through the illusion of past, present and
future- your experience becomes the continuity of Nowness. The past is
only anunreliable memory held in the present. The future is only a
projectionof your present conceptions. The present itself vanishes as
soon as youtry to grasp it. So why bother with attempting to establish
the illusionof solid ground?

You should free yourselves from your past memories and preconceptions
ofmeditation. Each moment of meditation is completely unique and full
ofpotentiality. In such moments, you will be incapable of judging your
meditationin terms of past experience, dry theory or hollow rhetoric.

Simply plunging directly into meditation in the moment Now, with your
wholeBeing (free from hesitation, boredom or excitement), is
Enlightenment.

*Transcribed by Ngakpa Ch??gyam Rinpoche, from notes made duringa series
of Ati Yoga Teachings and from questions asked during private
interviewswith His Holiness; given in Bodhanath, Kathmandu, Nepal in
1975.*

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
