<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:day one of trip Parent:(Main.)Israel1996 <span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[Israel1996](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.Israel1996?action=print)
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles) Tags:
israel

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

20-Oct (SUN): Itinerary
-----------------------

Meet at SAN JOSE AIRPORT, TERMINAL A for your flight to Los Angeles.
Your seat assigmnents have already been requested. If we are assigned a
group check-in desk you will be advised. Be sure your bags are properly
tagged. Be sure to be at the gate not later than 10:15am

RENO AIR departs San Jose 10:35am arrive Los Angeles 11:45am

We will be met by representative of our tour operator and transfered to
the international terminal where we will check in for

EL AL 6 departs Los Angeles 2:30pm arrives New York-JFK 10:50pm

Check-in for EL AL involves intensive questioning of each person
(couples may be able to go through together). Be prepared for a slow
process! And answer what is asked regarding the luggage. Keep your
carry-on luggage with you at all times.

Equipment change in New York, then continue to Tel Aviv.

EL AL 6 depart JEK 11:50pm

<div class="vspace">

</div>

20-Oct (SUN): Journal 6:02pm PDT
--------------------------------

In flight, on the second leg, from LA to JFK. The aircraft is a 757; the
first I've been I think. It is very full, pretty much every seat is
taken. The crew is cheerful, friendly, and fairly efficient; the new kid
spilled coffee on my leg. "I'm so sorry!! I've only been doing this for
6 months..." She was cute, and it was no big deal, since they serve the
coffee at drinking temp.

Security is major big deal getting on El Al. I was asked a lot of
questions by a very patient lady, Oshra (a very Hebrew name, so I was
told). She asked lots of questions a couple of times, and was a very
good interrogator. The only thing she asked me to do was to put my
Leatherman Tool (TM) in my checked bag - no biggie. The other question
that threw me for a small loop was the one about small electronix
appliances that use batteries; I have several being the gadget houmd I
am. That was okay, though, since wanted to know if I'd bought any
especially for the trip, or were brand new. The voice recorder was the
only thing thst came to mind. She asked if I had used it, she didn't
seem to wnt me to demonstrate it, however. She was satisfied with my
explanation that I had used it already. She asked why I was going to
Israel, her responses were pushing on my explanation. I had to restrain
myself a little and remember that she wasn't asking me because she was
interested in my trip, but because she was discerning my character and
story.

It was a unique experience and one that I understand. Yet it is still a
little strange to be questioned, so. It is interesting to recall Vered's
question when she heard I was going, sort of point blank "why ar you
going?" peerhaps there's enough fear and suspition going around that
they are concerned.

I am so excited about this trip, it is going to be such fun. Carol and
Julie are quite a pair -- already thick as thieves. Reed is along, that
will be great to get to know him better. So far, all the people going
are quite friendly. I hope we will grow closer together as we experience
the Holy Land.

This morning was sort of tough for me, the girls were a little bit of a
hassle, esp. Rachel. She was tired, granted, and may be getting sick
like Chelsea, so I can give her some space. I stayed my violent reaction
of yelling at her, and just reminded her of the consequences. She was
legitimately disspointed that we wern't geting donuts this morning. Oh
well. I got hugs and kisses at the airport that were certainly
heartfelt. I told Yvonne that I very much appreciated her for letting me
go off - for taking care of things at home so I could go on this trip. I
still would have liked it if we could have gone together. Our last
dialog was less than satisfying. We were having an argument, and we were
both getting frustrated. I forgot to just listen to her, and I think she
forgot to just listen to me. She was willing to spend some time with me
in making distinctions. She had a great insight, however. I had been
using the word manipulate in a neutral way, but metaphorically, by using
thew first defn of skillful placement and handling of objects. However,
she pointed out that my metaphoric usage actually moved into the third
or fourth defn, which was decidedly a negative coNotation. That was
interesting to note- the usage was poorly chosen, and clearly not
communicating what I intended to communicate. So, point for her, as she
said.

I haven't written much at all lately, it feels good to let my stream of
consciousness out on "paper" as it were.

This is getting to be a real rough flight, going into the storm fronts
and all. We are definitely on descent, the plane is pitched downwards.

I can hardly wait to get off this flight. I can hardly wait to get to
Israel! I'm just itchin' to get there. I got 20 rolls of slide film, and
I'm traveling light. It will be even lighter when we get to the hotel
and unpack.

Carol's idea for a trip diary is a good one, but I don't think that's my
style. I have my trusty indispensible here for coillecting thoughts and
notes, my sketchpad for those images that need a softer touch, and the
camera and film to record the trip. I'm all set!

</div>
