<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:day eight Parent:(Main.)Israel1996 <span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[Israel1996](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.Israel1996?action=print)
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles) Tags:
israel

</div>

Notes for 27-Oct

going up to Masada today, after visit to the Dead Sea for mud baths.
Carol told us not to shave this morning. "If you have hemmarhoids,
you'll feel it from your toes to your throat." According to their guide
last year.

9:25 on the road to En Gev, stop at an overlook for a Bedouin
encampment. -took a couple of photos of the encampment. -kids came
running up, they were pretty cute. They bwere begging, and generally
trying to get attention. John V gave one a half Shekel; the kid said
"what! A half shekel!"

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Discussion Hassidism. Author Naomi Ragan, 'Sotha'
-------------------------------------------------

Reform & Conservatism are fairly recent. -start to see it in Napolean's
time, when he made Jews equal citizens. Orthodox: I am a jewish person
first and foremost; all else comes after that.

Ultra-orthodox don't change anything from the traditions established
from middle europe. Dress is just like it was in 18th cen Europe.
Similar to Amish. Traditions last extremely long; slow to adopt
technologies. Especially in technology that keeps people separate.

Get politically active (unlike Amish); influenced vote of last election.
Conservative: I am a Jewish Person, and I'm a French citizen as well. I
keep kosher at home, traditions kept, butrelxed wh outsie, or
travelling. Reform: I am a citizen of thecomunity fist, who also happens
to be Jewish. Bring traditions into the community; don't make a strong
distinction between Jewish people and other people of God. Jewishness is
more an ethnic background rather than a religion.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aside, travelling through a wadis; pilgrims walk up them, still have
several people killed each year by Flash floods; a 20 foot wall of water
coming down the wadi, could have been a storm from 20 miles away.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A MOMENT: "Joshua Fit The Battle of Jericho" with Gilla taking a Chorus.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

11:33 Masada
------------

-   \#8: paint remaining on plaster walls of courtyard.
-   \#9-13: Byzantine chapel. Monks came to Masada in the 400's CE.
-   \#22: from synagogue, seige town and wall, looking down into
    northern wadi.
-   30-ish: walls of Herod's Northern Palace, Painted walls still
    visible. -also pictures of and from the N.Palace. Shots of John,
    Carol, Julie, an Andrew.

The Roman leader Silva, who had jurisdiction over the area, was ordered
to take out the Jews of Masada. He had 8000 soldiers and 7000 slaves.
They built a seige wall allaround the mount, and built stone camps and
villages, still visible today. Then they started building a ramp up the
western side of the mount. When it was tall enough, they rolled in a
tall battering ram. The Zealots saw what was happening, and built a
shock-resistant wall of the wood from the roofs of the dwellings, and
sand in between. This worked until Silva changed tactics and set it on
fire. The Zealots, seeing the battle as hopeless, committed mass suicide
to avoid being abused and enslaved.

This was a truly connecting experience, again. i had a true sense of
time and place at Masada, where I could feel transported back into what
it was like in the first century time. The sense of determination of the
Roman army, the sweat and pain of the slaves building the seige wall and
the ramp. Also the sense of determination of the defenders of the
fortress and the faith. The incomparable sense of desperation at seeing
there would be no way for the Zealots to win and keep their faith pure.

The cable car ride up was way too packed to be able to move about to
take pictures, but I still managed to get a couple of shots off that I
think will be great. I took almost a whole roll at Masada; ther were
spectacular views all around. The commanding view of the entire area
around is quite impressive4 it is easy to see why Herod choe it for one
of his fortresses. The palaces were quite grand and large, fitting for
Herod. There was a huge cistern with acquaducts built around the mount
to funnel rain water into the cistern.

How is it that ancient man could build such marvelous buildings and
treat people worse than animals? The discontinuity is pretty wide, but
often repeated through history; it certainly didn't start with Herod. It
happened at least as recently as WWII with the Jewish holocost. It
happens today in Bosnia, central Africa, Ireland, and countless other
places around the world. It happens in Jerusalem between Christian
churches of different sects.

Gilla told a joke about it today: "A Jew is marooned on an island after
being cast overboard. He Spends a number of years on the island,
building himself a small village. One day he is rescued and invites the
captain for a tour of the island. "Here is my woodworking area, here is
a synogogue, here is my kitchen, here is my garden, here is my
synogogue, and over here are my private rooms." The captain says, "why
do you need two synagogues?" The man replies, "this is the synagogue I
go to, and the one the over there is the synagoguw I don't go to." -a
complex question, mde difficult by many feelings and frustration4 hopes
for peace and reconcillition coming closer, and having it dashed away by
the leatites of

<div class="vspace">

</div>

16:18 Apres spa, En Gedi
------------------------

Whooaaa!! I feel good!! We spent a couple of hours soaking in the
sulphur baths and the dead sea. We did the mud thing, got it all over
ourselves! In our hair (Yo, Don King!), on our faces, carol getting
under (!) her suit-what a Gof!.

Here's mud in your ear.

We stopped at one spot to get a picture of the sunset on the mountains
across the Jordan. We saw some small animals that are called Hyrex or
Conies. Gilla said they are related to the elephant.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

21:26 Gathering
---------------

After dinner tonight we had a group time of sharing. A lot of people
came. Carol lead some song singing, and everyone shared something that
meant a lot to them. We wrote some poetry, cinquaines, which we shared;
mine are
[here](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.CinquainesFromIsrael?action=print).

After everyone left, I hung out some more with Julie and Carol. We
talked a bit about the various divisions we see that people hold against
people. It was an interesting mix and contrast between our disbelief of
how people can hold certain beliefs, and our own example of doing the
same thing.

Today was a very special day, sharing it mostly with Carol on the bus,
and Carol & Julie at the spa. I truly enjoyed their company all day.
They are both funny, special friends.

</div>
