<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:Israel trip travel itinerary Parent:(Main.)Israel1996 <span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[Israel1996](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.Israel1996?action=print)
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles) Tags:
israel

</div>

OCTOBER 20-30, 1996 With JORDAN EXTENSION to November 4

Escorted by John Dodson and Carol Damonte

FINAL ITINERARY Daily Schedule

SUN OCT 20

Meet at SAN JOSE AIRPORT, TERMINAL A for your flight to Los Angeles.
Your seat assigmnents have already been requested. If we are assigned a
group check-in desk you will be advised. Be sure your bags are properly
tagged. Be sure to be at the gate not later than 10:15am

RENO AIR departs San Jose 10:35am arrive Los Angeles 11:45am

We will be met by representative of our tour operator and transfered to
the international terminal where we will check in for

EL AL 6 departs Los Angeles 2:30pm arrives New York-\~FK 10:50pm

Check-in for EL AL involves intensive questioning of each person
(couples may be able to go through together). Be prepared for a slow
process! And answer what is asked regarding the luggage. Keep your
carry-on luggage with you at all times.

Equipment change in New York, then continue to Tel Aviv.

EL AL 6 depart JEK 11:50pm

MON OCT 21 arrive Tel Aviv 4:00pm

We will be met by our guide, Gilla, at the luggage area or just outside
customs for our transfer to our hotel in rlberias:

MORIAH PLAZA HOTEL Habanim Street (PO BOX 375) Tlberias 14103, Israel
phone from USA 011-972-6-792-233 fax from USA 011-972\~792-320

En route to Tiberias, on the shores of the Sea of Galilee, Gilla will
begin to familiarize us with this interesting country. We will pass
through diverse landscape which will remind you of pictures in your old
Sunday School Bible

8:00pm Immediately on arrival, dinner together in our hotel.

We suggest getting out and walking a bit after dinner, just to get fresh
air and to help get over jetlag! Tomorrow begins our exploration of The
Holy Land!

TUE OCT 22

We start the day, with the fabulous "Israeli Breakfast" buffet, complete
with fruit, salads, fish and breads. This day alone will be worth the
whole trip! We will be literally walking in the footsteps of Jesus,
along the shores of the Sea of Galilee.

8:30am Meet with our guide and driver to depart for Capernaum. This is
thought to have been the home of Jesus, Peter, and the other Disciples.
We continue into old Capernaum with its ancient synagogue; on to the
site of the Multiplication of the Loaves and Fishes (Tabgha) and up to
the site of the Sermon on the Mount--the Mount of Beatitudes. Then we'll
board 'The Jesus Boat", a replica of a First Century fishing boat for a
most memorable ride on the Sea of Galilee. We'll take tirne for lunch,
where you will have an opportunity if you wish, to try kosher Chinese,
or St. Peter's fish in a local restaurant.

2:00pm After lunch on your own we will depart for a visit to the east
shore of the Sea of Galilee to the community of Katzrin, birthplace of
Peter and important city in Jesus' Galilean ministry. (Possible hike
here).

Then continue to the Jordan River baptismal site, where you can remember
your own baptism.

Return to our hotel where we will have dinner.

You may want to get up early one of these mornings in Tlberias to watch
the sun rise over the Sea of Gallilee. You can picture Jesus and the
disciples there as you watch the early morning fishermen...

You will want to have your Bible with you today as we begin our visits
of New Testament sites. It will enrich your experience.

This evening you may enjoy browsing in local shops or waLking on the
boardwalk along the Sea of Galilee.

WED OCT 23 Today we'll visit Sepphoris, the magnificent Roman capital of
the Galilee and seat of the Sanhedrin in the Second Century CE. Recent
research suggests that this is quite possibly the city where Joseph and
Jesus worked doing carpentry for the Romans. The city comprises a
Crusader fortress, a Roman Amphitheater and a lovely reconstructed Roman
villa with numerous moasics.

We follow with a visit to Meggido, inspiration of James Michener's "The
Source" and prophesied site of Armageddon. Extensive archaeological digs
reveal twenty layers of civilization including fortifications of King
Solomon and an unbelievable water tunnel of King Ahab. Meggido provides
a magnificent view of Jezreel Valley at the crossroads of ancient Via
Maris.

After time for lunch we'll drive through the Jezreel Valley and on to
Nazareth where Jesus grew up. We'll visit the Church of the
Annunciation, traditional site of the home of Mary and Joseph where
Jesus lived. If we are lucky we will get a close up look into the cave
of the Annunciation.

A special time today will be our visit to our SISTER CHURCH, the
Anglican Evangelical Church of Nazareth. This congregation's pastor,
Bishop Riah Abu El-Assal, and some of the members will meet with us to
share their experiences and their hopes. Perhaps we will share a dinner
with them.

Return to Tiberias for overnight at our hotel.

THU OCT 24 8:30am

Today we will explore Upper Galilee. This is the northernmost portion of
the country, where Israel shares a border with Syria and Lebanon. We
will begin with a stop in Safed, city of the early Hebrew mystics, now
an interesting artists' colony.

We'll continue our journey to Caesarea Phillipi (Banais Spring) where
Jesus decided to return to Jerusalem. This is the source of the Jordan
River. Those who wish will have an opportunity to take a hike.

We will travel through the Golan Heights, to the Maron Golan Kibbutz
where we may have lunch in their cafeteria, and hear a bit about kibbutz
life and the future of this life-style.

?? pm

Return to hotel for dinner and evening activities.

Kibbutz life now is in transition. This is a time to try to understand
both the history and the future...a good time to listen...

If this kibbutz is not available for a visit we will try to make
alternative plans to visit a kibbutz near Tiberias.

FRI OCT 25 8:30am

Bags out before breakfast. After breakfast we depart by coach for
Jerusalem through the Jordan Valley. First stop will be Bet She'an, an
extensive Roman town, where we will see the recently uncovered
excavations and observe archeologists at work. Then continue south to
Jericho, oldest known walled city, for a view of Mt. Temptation and Mt.
Nebo, from which Moses looked upon the Holyland.

We'll visit Qumran, and the caves where the Dead Sea Scrolls were found
byBedouin boys in 1947. Now if permitted we follow the Old Jerusalem
Road, through the Judean mountains, sefflng of the Good Samaritan story.

We enter the city as pilgrims have done since ancient times, to fulfill
the words of the prophet, "I was glad when they said unto me 'Our feet
shall stand within thy Gates, O Jerusalem'." (Psalm 122:1-2)

We'll enjoy a brief orientation tour of Jerusalem and spectacular view
of the city before settling into our hotel for dinner and overnight.

MORIAH HOTEL 39 Keren Hayessod Street (PO BOX 4372) Jerusalem, 94188,
Israel phone from USA 011-972-2-232-232 fax from USA 011-972-2-232-411

SAT OCT 26 8:30am

We'll start today's sightseeing with a visit to the Garden Tomb, with
time for worship, reflection and meditation. We will visit the Garden of
Gethsemane and the Church of all Nations, then drive across the Kidron
Valley to the Old City. We'll visit many of the most important Christian
sites here including part of the Via Dolorosa, the Christian Quarter,
the beautiful Church of St. Anne, the Pool of Bethesda, Pilate's
Judgment Hall and the Ecce Homo Arch. We'll try to arrange a time to
sing in St. Anne's church with its beautiful accoustics.

This afternoon we'll travel to Bethany, where Mary, Martha and Lazarus
lived. Then on to visit Bethlehem where we will see Manger Square, the
Church of the Nativity and a view of Shepherd's Fields and the Fields of
Boaz and Ruth. We'll visit Bethlehem Bible College, which trains
ministers and now also trains Arab guides.

Return to Jerusalem for dinner and overnight in Jerusalem

pm Depart for Israeli Folkloric show at the YMCA.

Bethlehem Bible College is run by long-time Christian Arabs. We will
look forward to learning their experience and seeing their work in
Bethlelem. Alex Awad is a Methodist minister there.

The Folkloric show showcases all kinds of Israeli and ethnic dances-very
colorful and fun.

SUN OCT 27 8:30am

We'll drive to the Dead Sea, 1300 feet below dea level--the lowest spot
on earth, where we'll have time for a swim, rather a "float", in the
salty, mineral rich waters of the Dead Sea. You may want to try the "mud
treatment" or the spa hot springs pools. (admission extra) tlme
permitting, visit Ein Gedi, fabled Spring of David.

pm

Depart for Masada overlooking the Dead Sea, where we ascend by cable car
to visit the remnants of Herod's Palace, and the site at which, from 70
to 73 A.D., the Zealots made their last stand against the Roman Le
gions. (Quite possibly you saw the movie version of this on TV some
years ago). Some of us will want to hike up and/or down the serpant
path.

Tlme allowing we will drive into the Negev Desert to the southernmost
part of Biblical Beer Sheba and will see Abraham's Well where he watered
his flocks. Possibly visit a Bedouin encampment before we return to
Jerusalem for dinner at our hotel.

Don't forget to pack your swimsuit -- you will want it today. But even
if you forget it, you can rent a suit at the spa... You may have heard
others talk about the mud baths...prepare for an experience!

MON OCT 28 8:30am

We'll spend today learning of the Jewish history of Jerusalem. After
breakfast we begin our day at the miniature model of Jerusalem as it was
in the Second Temple period (circa A.D. 68). Then see some of the
excavations taking place at the Western Wall and the Southern Staircase.

We may have an opportunity to observe Jewish Bar Mitzvahs at the Western
Wall. And you may leave your prayer tucked into the cracks. Men and
women are kept at separate parts of the Wall.

We will next visit the reconstructed Jewish Quarter, walk through the
Cardo, the original Roman street, where we'll stop for lunch.

Then on to the Temple Mount and the Dome of the Rock, where Abraham was
to sacrifice Isaac, and now the site of a beautiful mosque.

This afternoon we'll visit the Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial.

pm

Dinner and overnight in Jerusalem.

We have a special treat planned for you at lunch time today. Come
prepared for fun and a good meal.

You may want to note below the sites and shops to which you will want to
return on our free days:

TUE OCT 29

You have today at leisure for shopping and relaxing. You may choose to
visit the Jerusalem Musem at Jaffa Gate which tells a fascinating story
of the world's three montheisitc religions--Judaism, Christianity and
Islam; or the recently opened Bible Lands Museum. You may want to visit
the Kenesset, seat of government, with its Chagal tapestries, visit the
"Shrine of the Book" which houses the Dead Sea Scrolls, or return to the
Old City to explore sites which you didn't get to visit earlier. Or just
browse the shops and stalls. Our guide will probably have several other
suggestions as well.

Conditions permitting, John is planning a hike to the Monastery of St.
George off the old Jericho Road. This will be a bit rugged, so is for
the fit! Hikers will share the expense of guides and transportation.

Tonight is our Farewell Dinner... our last meal in the Holy Land. We
hope you will want to participate in reflection and sharing of what the
experience has meant to you. At the completion of the evening we will
each receive a Certificate of Pilgrimage. Following dinner we will be
transfered to Tel Aviv airport where Gilla will help us with check-in
procedures for our trip home.

We will have "late check-out", so you will have use of your room for
packing and resting until time to depart.

You may want to spend a part of this day organizing your luggage. As you
pack you may want to note all your purchases and the amount spent, so
that you will be ready to fill out your U.S. customs declaration on
board our flight to the US.

WED

EARLY morning departure from Tel Aviv on our flight home.

EL AL 5 departs Tel Aviv 1:00am arrives New York-JFK 5:40am

Equipment change in New York. Luggage will be transferred for you.
departs JFK 6:45am arrives Los Angeles 10:00am

Clear customs in Los Angeles. Take your luggage out of customs in a
luggage cart and walk to terminal 1 for our flight home.

Southwest 1548 departs Los Angeles 2:10pm arrives San Jose 3:15pm

We know this will have been an "Experience of a Lifetime". We will plan
a reunion, hme to share our pictures and relive our experiences. Thanks
for going with us!

</div>
