<div id="wikitext">

[PmWiki](http://www.pmwiki.org/wiki/PmWiki/PmWiki) is a
[wiki-based](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=PmWiki.WikiWikiWeb?action=print)
system for collaborative creation and maintenance of websites.

<span
class="wikiword">[PmWiki](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=PmWiki.PmWiki)</span>
pages look and act like normal web pages, except they have an
"[Edit](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Main.WikiSandbox?action=print)" link
that makes it easy to modify existing pages and add new pages into the
website, using [basic
editing](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=PmWiki.BasicEditing?action=print)
rules. You do not need to know or use any HTML or CSS. Page editing can
be left open to the public or restricted to small groups of authors.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Key <span class="wikiword">PmWiki</span> Features
-------------------------------------------------

<div class="outdent">

**Custom look-and-feel**: A site administrator can quickly change the
appearance and functions of a <span class="wikiword">PmWiki</span> site
by using different
[skins](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=PmWiki.Skins?action=print) and HTML
templates. If you can't find an appropriate skin [already
made](http://www.pmwiki.org/wiki/Cookbook/Skins), you can easily modify
one or create your own.
<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>

<div class="outdent">

**Access control**: <span class="wikiword">PmWiki</span> password
protection can be applied to an entire site, to groups of pages, or to
individual pages. Password protection controls who can read pages, edit
pages, and upload attachments. <span class="wikiword">PmWiki</span>'s
access control system is completely self-contained, but it can also work
in conjunction with existing password databases, such as *.htaccess*,
LDAP servers, and <span
class="wikiword">[MySQL](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=PmWiki.MySQL?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=PmWiki.MySQL?action=edit)</span>
databases.
<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>

<div class="outdent">

**Customization and plugin architecture**: One principle of the
[PmWikiPhilosophy](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=PmWiki.PmWikiPhilosophy?action=print)
is to only include essential features in the core engine, but make it
easy for administrators to customize and add new markup. Hundreds of
features are already available by using extensions (called "recipes")
that are available from the <span class="wikiword">PmWiki</span>
[Cookbook](http://www.pmwiki.org/wiki/Cookbook/Cookbook).

</div>

<span class="wikiword">PmWiki</span> is written in
[PHP](http://php.net/) and distributed under the [General Public
License](http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html). It is designed to be
simple to
[install](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=PmWiki.Installation?action=print),
customize, and maintain for a variety of applications. This site is
running pmwiki-2.2.62.

<span class="wikiword">PmWiki</span> is a registered trademark of
[Patrick R. Michaud](http://www.pmichaud.com/).

<span class="wikiword">PmWiki</span>'s home on the web is at
[pmwiki.org](http://pmwiki.org/).

</div>
