<div id="wikitext">

I originally picked up this recipe from a friend who goes by the alter
ego of Fielding Melish (cf. Woody Allen movies). This is one of the
recipes that I lost and am trying to recreate from memory. I haven't
tried out this version, but it's the best I can remember it.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Ingredients
-----------

-   2 lb pork roast
-   1 can tomato sauce
-   1 can diced tomatoes
-   1 chopped onion
-   1 chopped jalape??o pepper *(adjust to your personal heat
    preference.)*
-   Chili powder, cumin, salt and pepper to taste.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Directions
----------

1.  Put the chopped onion in the bottom of the crockpot
    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

2.  Wash the roast and put in the crockpot
    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

3.  Cover roast with tomato sauce and diced tomatoes
    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

4.  Set the crockpot on low and cook for 7-8 hours
    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

5.  When done, take the roast out and shred, removing any fatty bits
    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

6.  Place the shredded roast back in the crockpot and add spices.
    *(Crockpot cooking tends to make spices more bland -- their
    volatility is reduced with exposure to heat over long periods of
    time. Thus you may need to adjust the spices according to you own
    tastes. This is also why they aren't added until late in the
    process)*
    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

7.  Cook on low for an additional 1-2 hours
    <div class="vspace">

    </div>

8.  Serve in tortillas with shredded cheese and lettuce and salsa

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Comments
--------

As mentioned above, crockpot cooking tends to negate the effects of
spices over long periods of time. Generally, you want to add them late
in the game, so they have the ability to work through the dish but not
expire from too much cooking.

If you do add the spices late, this is one recipe that really expands
when left to sit and the spices to bloom. Make a day ahead and reheat
for whatever meal you're going to have.

As to the heat factor: jalape??os vary in heat with freshness. The thing
about jalape??os is, though, that they don't really taste very good.
What you may want to try instead are haba??eros, which are much more
flavourful, although also much hotter. One fresh hab is probably enough
to flavour and heat this entire dish. Also, instead of plain jalape??os
you might want to try roasting them first, turning them into chipotle, a
much more flavourful version, although not as high in heat (again, that
volatility of the capsacin oil in the chili renders it cooler when
exposed to heat).

I have since come to find out that "Colorado" means "red" in spanish.
The name "Colorado" in this recipe comes from the origin of the recipe,
not the Spanish word.

You could do this with a beef chuck roast instead of a pork roast, but I
think it's much nicer with pork.

</div>
