<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Title:To My Someday Daughter, by Geordie Tait Summary: Article from a
father to his future daughter about being strong in the face of misogyny
in typical male-dominated areas Source:
<http://www.starcitygames.com/php/news/print.php?Article=22786>
Categories: [Humanism](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Humanism)
Tags: feminism, humanism, game-culture, misogyny Parent:<span
class="wikiword">[SavedArticles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>(.<span
class="wikiword">[HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>)
<span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[SavedArticles.HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

To My Someday Daughter
======================

by Geordie Tait

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Introduction
------------

<div class="indent">

<span style="font-size:120%">"Women, by their nature, are not
exceptional chess players: they are not great fighers." -- Garry
Kasparov</span>

</div>

Hi, kiddo. This is your father. You haven't been born yet (you haven't
even been conceived yet!), but Daddy is writing you this letter anyway
to apologize to you and let you know that he loves you, and it's going
to be all right.

I want you to keep your head up, no matter how much the goings-on of the
world sometimes hang about your shoulders. I'm sorry that despite being
50% of the world's population, females own 1% of the world's property.
I'm sorry that only 28% of businesses in the United States are owned by
women, and I'm sorry that if (god forbid) you have to walk up to a
police officer and report that you've been sexually assaulted, you're
very likely to be treated with skepticism and contempt. I apologize in
advance for the way people will treat you when you accomplish things.
When you succeed, ignore those who say you did so not because you're
worthwhile or talented, but because you're a woman. And don't listen to
what mean old Garry Kasparov says??it's not like he's well-respected by
gamers or anything.

I know you might want to follow in my footsteps and have a career in
gaming. After all, I'm a sedentary guy, and you're going to have every
opportunity to get interested in games and gadgets as you get older.
That's not to say that I won't take you out for swimming class or show
you the wonders of the outdoors. I'll give you a chance to excel at
whatever your beautiful little heart desires. But certain things come
more naturally to me than others, and if there's even a small chance
that you might find yourself working in the same industry as your old
man, I want to prepare you for it.

This letter is mostly about some stuff that happened recently, but it's
also about me, your dad, and how I've changed as a person over the
years. It's an open letter, so I'm going to let all my friends read it,
too. By the end of it, some will be mad at me, perturbed and
energy-sapped because I've made them feel guilty and asked them to
question things that seem natural to them. Some will dismiss me, too
entrenched in the perceived righteousness of their ways. They will tell
themselves that I am expressing a progressive viewpoint for the express
purpose of ruining their fun. (This is known as ??Krounering,?? shown
below):

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitKKJVL.jpg)

</div>

By inviting my friends to read, I might burn a few bridges??but it's for
the greater good. I'll teach you when you're older that bridges can
damage you. Sometimes, they're little more than the rotting scaffolding
that supports a worse version of yourself. Put another way, if one's
only religion is progression, bridges, with their connection to old
ideals and lessons better forgotten, can be heretics. So light 'em up.
Become free. Become explosive material.

If at age 30 you are little more than the currency that fools have paid
you, spend yourself.

Where to begin? What can I tell you about your father that you don't
already know?

Well, I love gaming. Sure, I haven't attended a live event in a while,
and I haven't played any MTGO since they disappointed me by not
implementing 1v1 Commander in time for the release of the product of the
same name. (I bought two of those decks, listlessly played some
Singleton with your mother, and then threw them back into the E-Closet.)
Still, even a little removed from the beaches of wizardry, I remember
the sodden wooden pilings of the dock (encrusted heavily with barnacles
and crabs) and find them comfortably familiar. I'll probably draft some
Innistrad. And by the time you're about eight years old, we'll be able
to check out the new MTGO client together.

When I leave Magic, kiddo, it won't be because I'm tired of playing the
game itself. It'll be for two reasons:

A. It's too expensive to play the most interesting Magic.

B. I'm tired of gamers and their terrible attitudes towards you, my
daughter, my flesh and blood. The girl who will one day look up at me
and say ??I want to do what daddy does!?? and then watch as I screw my
face up into a flesh vortex and think really hard about what that choice
means for you.

Let me tell you about ??B,?? kiddo. B for ??boys club.?? B for
??Bereznak.?? And B for a word that the first so gleefully applies to
the second.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Part of the tribe
-----------------

<div class="indent">

<span style="font-size:120%">"When you get to middle shool, you get
segregated one way or another. Either you're cool or you're not. [We]
just found a way to be cool, and that's to be together"</span>

</div>

**Remember the above quote,** kiddo. We're going to come back to it
later.

In the meantime, I have some semi-bad news for you. Your father is a big
nerd, and I'm not just saying that to score cred with everyone else
reading. I can prove it. This group of so-called ??geeks?? and ??nerds??
is an organization I've belonged to for years. We have a secret
handshake of sorts, a nerd I.D. card, a set of shared circumstances that
allows us to identify each other and know that we've found a kindred
spirit.

So let me tell you about Geordie Tait, your proud father, embittered
youth, former social pariah turned career gamer.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitGeekLicense.jpg)

</div>

This is my Certified Geek License from the Federal Geek Association
(formerly the Federal Association of Geeks). On the back, you'll find my
biometric information and the results of that I.Q. test that I ??aced??
in kindergarten. ??Smarts?? is in quotes because it describes probably
the least-valuable intelligence out there??the smirking, arrogant
synaptic pep that allows a young lad to impress a few special education
teachers, but falls far, far short of allowing him to draw useful
conclusions about life, forthcoming adulthood, or how to improve
himself.

Many of daddy's friends also have one of these cards. Many of us have
felt separate from our peers and excluded from normal social activities
because we were bright from a young age. We carry a chip on our shoulder
because of that. We're an entire race of squanderers, of keen minds
turned to inert and even flagellatory ends. In many cases, these
so-called ??smarts?? did little but start us down the road to social
ostracization.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitGeekLicense2.jpg)

</div>

This is my ??Depressed and Lonely?? card, which I now produce to prove
to you that your father was, unfortunately, an introvert and not much of
a smooth operator with the damsels. Girls showed little interest in me
as a younger man due to my awkward appearance, strange hobbies, sketchy
social skills, and unpopularity with the chaps. I didn't possess the
strength of character not to resent them for this, and so a bias against
women developed. I spent a long time foolishly grumbling about gals who
liked to get out there and party, an activity that I was too shy to
contemplate. ??Why don't they want to sit around on the couch, eat
pizza, and play Tekken 2??? I wondered. From age 18-28, I wanted nothing
more than to have a steady girlfriend. It never happened.

At a time when I had no idea what I was doing with my life, gaming
provided an outlet, a direction, and an escape from depression. I
started playing Magic: The Gathering and then writing about it, pouring
all of my energy and money into my hobby. I made new friends that I'll
treasure forever. When I married your mother, my best man was a Pro Tour
coverage reporter, and my groomsmen were an old PTQ grinding buddy, a
former StarCityGames.com editor, and a fellow creative content
professional turned standup comedian. I've also managed to slowly carve
out a career in the gaming industry from my humble beginnings as a
prolific but pandering pundit.

I owe the game a lot. If anyone had reason to defend the honor of Magic
from the perceived callousness of an internet hussy, it was your old
man. I am definitely one of the tribe.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

\#Finkeldate
------------

<div class="indent">

<span style="font-size:120%">"To be honest the article doest really say
anything bad except that she don't like guys who like Magic" --
@jonnymagic00</span>

</div>

This story sounds mean. It's about a girl who poked fun at some boys,
and how the boys banded together to punish her for it.

At 3:30 pm on August 29, 2011, a day that will live in infamy, Alyssa
Bereznak, an intern at Gizmodo, [posted an article about her
dates](http://gizmodo.com/5833787/my-brief-okcupid-affair-with-a-world-champion-magic-the-gathering-player)
with a famed Magic: The Gathering champion. This champion turned out to
be Jon Finkel.

The article had a negative tone. It did not attempt to tell ??both sides
of the story?? or give Jon the benefit of the doubt. There were no
caveats, no attempts to qualify the many forceful statements in it. That
uncompromising tone, combined with the community of readers to which it
was published, resulted in a maelstrom of negative feedback.

Someone over at Gizmodo noticed. After publication, the piece was edited
in the following ways:

1\. The line ??this is what happens, I thought, when you lie in your
online profile?? was changed to the less harsh ??this is what happens, I
thought, when you leave things out of your online profile??.

2\. The taunting, bush-league conclusion was removed: ??Also, for all you
world famous nerds out there: Don't go after two Gawker Media employees
and not expect to have a post written about you. We live for this kind
of stuff.??

3\. The line ??if everyone stopped lying in their profiles, maybe there
also wouldn't be quite as many <span class="wikiword">OKCupid</span>
horror stories to tell?? was changed to a longer, less inflammatory
section that did not refer to ??lying.??

4\. An italicized introduction was added, attempting to explain the
thesis behind the article and essentially admitting it was ??mean.??
Additional explanation was also added at the end of the article, echoing
this thesis.

5\. Jon's name, not present in the original article, was added.

6\. Terms like ??world champion of nerds?? and ??champion dweeb?? were
removed.

The article seemed on its face to condone shallowness, which is not
something that most people can get behind, especially a group of gamers
with high hopes about the storybook romances they'll one day experience
when a fair damsel looks past their gruff, dice-rolling exterior and
gets to know them. Furious responses poured in. This was perhaps
understandable to a point, as the article had a number of major
problems:

1\. It was written for Gizmodo, a tech website. [The tech industry is
among the most male-dominated and sexist in
America.](http://www.standalone-sysadmin.com/blog/2011/09/seriously-stop-with-the-booth-babes/)
The stories of conference organizers begrudgingly booking female
speakers and then grumbling about ??affirmative action?? are legion.
Scott Adams is celebrated as the sharp-witted visionary behind
??Dilbert,?? darling of office bulletin boards, and yet [he continues to
make stupid statements about
women](http://www.comicsalliance.com/2011/06/16/dilbert-scott-adams-on-rape/)
on a regular basis. Without condoning the response, I really don't know
what this article was doing on Gizmodo.

2\. Nearly all potential discussion was lost in the baggage that comes
with the word ??shallow.?? A case could (and should) have been made that
disqualification of a potential partner on the basis of Magic: The
Gathering play is, in fact, legitimate. But the article was too short
for that, without the space to explain itself as it needed to. Instead,
it depended on readers to draw that conclusion themselves. Gizmodo
readers. Male keyboard warriors, many with the welts of social
ostracization still open and weeping upon their hairy backs. It was
never going to happen. People tore into the word ??shallow?? like
jackals slinging their heads low in the belly of an overturned gazelle.

3\. She used Jon's name, which added an element of ??man, this guy is a
nerd!?? harshness to the whole proceedings. If you stretch it, you can
make a case that Jon, as a (in his words ??Grade D??) celebrity, was
fair game for this. I don't blame anyone who doesn't think so, though.

4\. The real thesis of the article, whether or not Jon was obligated to
mention his Magic: The Gathering world championships in a dating
profile, was never given much of a treatment. The article was a drive-by
shooting that made its point and then floored it and sped off.

So, it was a short, ill-placed piece of writing that arrived stillborn
in a pool of nerdrage. It had a message, but that message was buried.
Uncooperative, incensed readers were in no mood to unearth any
meaningful subtext. All most people saw was a judgmental woman making
fun of a well-respected man.

Payback was sure to be hell.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

The Response
------------

<div class="indent">

<span style="font-size:120%">"I dont think this invalidates her as human
being or anything." -- Jon Finkel</span>

</div>

First things first. The best, classiest response came from Jon himself.
On Twitter, in interviews, answering questions over the course of
several days, he refused to take the bait and dig the needle in. He
deserves a ton of credit for that.

Few others were interested in the same approach.

As the article went viral, everyone wanted to get their two cents in,
their gamer passions inflamed. Even the mildest of men??people I'd
seldom seen get so animated about anything??had something to say. Joey
Pasco, a <span class="wikiword">SCGLive</span> commentator and
well-known podcaster, pulled no punches:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitTweetPasco.jpg)

</div>

The accusation here is that Alyssa should ??give Magic players a
chance?? and that dismissing them out-of-hand is reprehensible. This was
an idea echoed by many people and one we'll return to later.

Who else have we got on deck?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitTweetCunningham.jpg)

</div>

ffeJ, probably my favorite Magic writer, had no sympathy for Alyssa.
Indeed, the article did not invite much examination or sympathy, and he
gave it none.

Your kindly Uncle Evan, who I will introduce you to when you're old
enough, was one of the many that chose to focus on the baffling
inappropriateness of the article's forum:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitTweetErwin.jpg)

</div>

These responses were off-the-cuff and paid the article little respect,
which can be understood. The tragedy of Alyssa's article is that it was
flawed, and because of this, the gamer community really needed to rise
to a special level of perception and thick-skinnedness to respond to it
in a constructive way.

Lacking the proper perspective and hot under the collar, everyone fell
short.

Most of the responses fell into three categories.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

### GENDERED INSULTS

<div>

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitFacebook1.jpg)

</div>

Sorry you had to see that, kiddo. I promise you, not all ??geeky?? males
behave so abominably. Why, right here on <span
class="wikiword">StarCityGames</span>.com we've got number-cruncher
Chris Mascioli, a real hero. Once, Riki Hayashi boorishly called Brian
David-Marshall a ??shill?? for not asking Alexis Jansen a bunch of
questions about gender-reassignment in the post-Great-Designer-Search-1
victory interview. Moral, upstanding Uncle Chris called it
??disgusting.?? (Riki, to his credit, has since apologized.) You'd have
been impressed.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitTweetMascioli.jpg)

</div>

Wait, what? Sh\*t. Forget that daddy mentioned Uncle Chris, okay,
pumpkin? Uncle Chris is mean; he kicks puppies and collects their
anguished yelps in an obsidian jar. Also, whatever you do, don't head
over to Wikipedia.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitWiki1.jpg)

</div>

If you have a book report due, you will need to actually read the book,
sweetie. I know it's a chore, but I don't want you exposed to any
objectionable edits.

Speaking of shallow??

<div class="vspace">

</div>

### WE'LL SHOW YOU WHAT SHALLOW REALLY MEANS

A lot of the boys decided to laugh at Alyssa and let her know that
because she was shallow, she had missed her chance at dating a guy with
a lot of money.

I know, honey??it hurts my brain as well. I'm sorry if this is
confusing. I guess for you to understand this part, I should explain
that kindly old Mr. Finkel was a well-respected man. Many of daddy's
peers admire him greatly for the amount of money he's made with the
power of his almighty brain.

I'm sure by now you've met Uncle Ted??he and daddy and are always
yammering back and forth at each other.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitTweetTed1.jpg)

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitTweetTed2.jpg)

</div>

Now, I'm not going to say that your Uncle Ted is a huge Finkel barnacle
(cough), but every couple of weeks he tweets in an awed tone about the
size of Mr. Finkel's apartment and bankroll. It's like clockwork. In
fact, just last week, in the midst of this entire kerfuffle, we had this
exchange:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitGTTED.jpg)

</div>

At that point I assume he fired a few knuckleballs into his CPU fan and
trundled off to bed.

I'm happy to report that Ted, who often takes pleasure in being
flamboyant and outrageous, engaged in practically no Alyssa-bashing.
Perhaps he realized Twitter is not just a big gamer bull-session but
representative of all types of people.

Others who admired Jon and his millions showed considerably less
restraint.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitShallow1.jpg)

</div>

I guess everyone who isn't a millionaire should cry themselves to sleep
at night. Of course, at least this guy knows who Jon is??

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitShallow2.jpg)

</div>

I think Anon over here is confusing him with someone else entirely.

It went on and on, mutating inside the dark, moist recesses of a meme
generator to include another sort of shallowness altogether. I'm sure
you're very mature for your age, kiddo, but you might want to avert your
eyes.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitMemeCollage.jpg)

</div>

We've got a little of everything. Gendered insults. References to her
appearance. Mentions of how much money Jon made playing Magic, as if it
that matters when one is looking for his or her soul mate. Weren't
gamers supposed to be romantics, expecting partners to ??look past a
hobby to see the real man??? Turns out we're writing our love letters
from the inner cloister of Uncle Scrooge's counting house.

There's unbelievable hypocrisy here. Gamers so often yearn for a
companion who won't get hung-up on things like appearance and who will
take a deep look at the qualities inside, but appearance is always the
button they press when it comes time to, in their eyes, ??take someone
down a peg.??

As bad and as dull and ferociously misogynistic as these are, here's
another one that is still more infuriating:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitMeme2.jpg)

</div>

Shameful confession time for Dad??I spent my early twenties expressing
the above sentiment, and it was no less stupid back then. The idea that
gamers are the gentle lambs of the dating pool, neglected by females who
gravitate toward wolves who will devour them whole, is a gamer bromide
from way back. It is personified in the [Nice Guy??
Gamer](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Nice_guy_syndrome), one of our
number who considers himself an ideal romantic partner because of his
ability to offer emotional support under false pretenses, characterizes
friendships that don't lead to sex as ??failures,?? demonizes
extroverts, and awards himself gold stars for not hitting women or
raping them.

As you can see above, ??Mr. Nice Guy?? also believes that geeks are less
likely to cheat on their partners. This just isn't the case, as the
water-cooler at any gaming company well knows. Gamers are always trying
to ??Next Level?? things and fancy themselves the Smartest Boys Club in
the World. Pick a societal stricture that might actually prevent this
philandering and a gamer will give you a reason that he can just shrug
it off.

Religion? *??Opiate of the masses. Are you seriously suggesting that I
keep it in my pants on religious grounds? You're just like the
Taliban.??*

Monogamy? *??Antiquated social construct. Men are genetically
predestined to hunt. I know this is true because Scott Adams and some
guy in PV's article comments told me so.??*

Traditional relationship morality? *??I don't see how I can be expected
not to sleep with my friend's girlfriend if she is unhappy and there's a
spark between us. This might be the only chance I have at happiness, and
I'm going to take it. It was his fault for playing Magic 12 hours/day
and ignoring her. P.S. Sorry honey, tomorrow I'm playing Magic for 12
hours.??*

Responsibility? *??I know I have a couple of kids, but I'm out of here.
Later honey! Going to grind my way onto the gravy train! You only live
once, and at 22 years old I feel the cold hand of the grim reaper on my
shoulder!??*

These ironclad moral philosophies are developed throughout
post-pubescence by reading *Fight Club* quotes in the forum signatures
of other gamers. To sum up, all of the notions in this meme image are
false. You can date whoever you want, pumpkin. Sometimes, after you make
your choice, you'll get people who will try to make you feel guilty or
foolish for not dating them instead. That's all that's going on here.

So, what else have we got on tap? Oh, of course.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

### INTERNALIZED MISOGYNY

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitQuote2.jpg)

</div>

Daddy is very interested in integrating the gaming industry and is
always ready to encourage any budding Jacqueline Robinsons. However, it
is hard for girls to be taken seriously in gaming when dozens of wannabe
<span class="wikiword">FragDolls</span> are tap-dancing on top of the
dugout and offering opposing players ??a shine.??

When the article came out and men started hating on it, many female
tech/gaming writers were eager to present themselves as an alternative
to the evil and shallow Alyssa Bereznak. One such instance was [this
piece](http://www.gizmodo.com.au/2011/08/alyssa-bereznak-just-reminded-us-that-women-can-be-predators-online-too/)
by Elly Hart of Gizmodo Australia, criticizing Alyssa for saying
??bitchy things?? and spending an entire paragraph shaming her for ??not
knowing her limits when it comes to alcohol,?? an assertion not in
evidence anywhere.

*??The fact that you don't know your limits when it comes to alcohol??or
that you might have even deliberately got yourself drunk??doesn't make
you look very credible.??*

This is a sentiment that sexually assaulted women have been hearing from
the police for years. Elly Hart uses it here as she shucks and jives to
appease the multitudinous, nerd-raging masses. In her defense, master's
house was on fire, and there was a warm corner in the attic waiting for
her if she was able to dump some water on the blaze.

Now listen??you mustn't be too upset with Miss Hart. She's a female
writer for a tech website, and that is a very, very difficult job. In
order to fit in, she has had to internalize all the ways that boys in
her industry treat girls poorly and take them for granted. It's okay to
blame her less than you do the boys who were mean. As you grow, I'll be
proud of you if you tend to assign blame to power and tend to forgive
the oppressed.

Let's wrap up.

Some have said that Alyssa was trolling, but whether she was or wasn't
does not matter anymore. The furious punishment became, after a short
while, more significant than the crime. It continued long after any
compassionate person would have kept his silence. For each studious
rebuttal, there were nine withering, sexist remarks riding sidecar. And
this I believe, kiddo??the man who leans in for insult number
one-thousand, having already seen the first nine-hundred ninety-nine
reprisals vault from the barbed tongues of his peers, is furthest in the
wrong.

So, *why*?

Why did gamers respond so viciously?

And perhaps even more curious,

??considering how eager I've sometimes been to crucify a poorly written
article??

??considering that I'm a gamer and a geek??

**Why didn't I join them?**

Good question. Let me tell you all about it, kiddo. I've got some
apologizing to do.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

A Sordid Past
-------------

<div class="indent">

<span style="font-size:120%">"They wouldn't be caught dead at a Magic
tournament? Screw them, then. They can go back to looking at themselves
in the mirror or doing whatever it is that women do." -- Geordie Tait,
2002</span>

</div>

So, a female writing for a nerd-leaning website wrote a scathing article
that denigrated possibly the greatest Magician ever to sleeve up a deck
of Magic cards. I was stung and immediately wrote a rebuttal article
defending the community and the game, while smugly pointing out that the
champion in question had no shortage of money, and certainly no trouble
finding dates.

Huh? You didn't see Daddy's rebuttal article? It WAS published, honest!
Right here on <span class="wikiword">StarCityGames</span>.com!

Nearly a decade ago.

Back in June of 2003, a sometime-sorceress named Starr Kaplan wrote
[??Why Do People Think Magic Is Full of Fat, Rude
Slobs???](http://www.starcitygames.com/magic/misc/5090_Why_Do_People_Think_Magics_Full_Of_Fat_Rude_Slobs.html),
an article containing at least a little of the same sentiment carried by
Alyssa Bereznak's recent Gizmodo excursion.

The forums are lost to time now because Uncle Pete and Uncle Evan have
no sympathy for Luddites, but you're creative, and I'm sure you can
imagine the response??an endless, unraveling toilet roll of
??shallowness?? accusations and invective. The similarities to the
Bereznak situation are eerie. Each article contained inflammatory
statements, an excoriation of gaming and gamers, with a generally
negative tone. Even more than Bereznak's article, Kaplan's focuses on
the social stigma attached to gamers, aiming to make the community take
responsibility for its bad reputation. A further commonality is that it
maligns a player who could be considered the greatest of all time??Kai
Budde, in this case. Here's the quote in question:

*"For the overweight Magic player, the sight of role model Kai Budde on
several Sideboard covers and on Voidmage Prodigy serves as proof that
anyone can be a Magic star."*

Kai fat jokes? It was essentially the 2003 version of: ??You might end
up sharing goat cheese with a champion of dweebs.?? Well, honey, Daddy
was a misanthropic barnacle in those days and was not going to let that
stand. Wielding like a cudgel what I charitably saw as ??writing
ability,?? I proceeded to embarrass myself. [My smug, intellectually
worthless rebuttal
rant](http://www.starcitygames.com/magic/misc/5118_Love_Of_The_Game.html)
now acts as a time capsule for sentiments better off forgotten. It reads
uncannily like the same nonsense that was trotted out just last week
when Alyssa poked the Magic hive with a sharp stick.

Here's an actual quote from it:

*??Women have to deal with it, it's that simple. They'll play Magic when
they can get away from hitting bars to get ogled, or looking in the
mirror and thinking they're ugly, or whatever it is that women do.??*

I'm sorry, kiddo. The above is probably the most reprehensible, ??slut
shaming?? statement I have ever written. Daddy is an IDIOT. It's all
there. ??Chicks who go out to bars are whores. They're superficial,
too.?? Superficial! Said so smoothly, as if men had nothing to do with
it.

Obviously I was taken to task for this, right?

Nope. As much as I'd like to report that a female version of Jon Becker
showed up in my article forums to ruin my career, nothing of the sort
happened. There was the odd dissenting remark here and there, but
mostly, people just laughed along with the rant and saw no problem with
it. I should have expected that because amazingly, [I'd done almost the
same
rant](http://www.starcitygames.com/magic/misc/3243_The_Daily_Shot_Bethmo_Had_Better_Deal_Dammit.html)
a year before, in 2002, in response to another similar article by
Brainburst author Ron Vitale. Few people had any problem with that one,
either??and if any women complained, I certainly just ignored them,
insulated from reproach by the embrace of warm, hairy male privilege.

Let's see what other garbage we can unearth. Oh! Here's a good one.

*??If I was Kai, and I read that, I'd be a little upset. Of course, he
has many reasons to simply ignore remarks like this??about 200,000
reasons, lifetime. And counting.??*

If you are experiencing d??j?? vu, sweetheart, it's not because they
changed something in the Matrix. (What? You don't know what that is?
It's a movie that came out well before you were born, and had no sequels
whatsoever. Honest.) The reason the above statement seems familiar is
because it's the exact ??criticize his hobbies all you like, he's still
stacking up dead presidents!?? sentiment that many gamers expressed when
Alyssa rejected our fearless leader, kindly old Mr. Finkel. Nothing
proves an accusation of female shallowness like stating how much money
the guy she's not interested in makes. ??Yeah! Pass him up even though
he's rich! That's shallow as hell!??

Anyway, I can't read though any more of this crap. I'm sure you get the
point??that two times, a piece critical of the community's treatment of
women was written, and both times, I rode to the rescue like Sir
Galahad, protecting the fragile rights of that most oppressed of groups,
the Caucasian malcontent.

Hold on, sweetheart, Daddy has to go and stick his head in a microwave.
If I could travel back in time and confront my 2003 self, the second
thing I would do (after telling my doppelganger to call up the Trail
Blazers and scream 'take Durant!' into the phone) would be to punch
myself in the face.

As for the Kaplan article, a few questionable statements aside, I think
it holds up pretty well??more than I can say for what I wrote in
response to it. I've held on to these two low-class rants for the same
reason the Bartman baseball was briefly preserved??so that I could one
day detonate them in front of thousands of people.

That was 2003, kiddo. I had my head up my ass, and so did everyone else.
I torpedoed a female-written article and was essentially lauded for it.
I was blissfully unaware of any problem.

So when did I start to clue in? Good question.

You're too young remember this, pumpkin, but there was a time about a
decade ago when the trading card company Upper Deck attempted to compete
directly with Wizards of the Coast to see who would get your allowance
money. Flush with cash from the success of Yu-Gi-Oh!, UDE (Upper Deck
Entertainment) drove a truckload of money to the front door of organized
play guru Jeff Donais and asked him to build them a winner. In the years
that followed, Upper Deck pursued and wrangled the services of a who's
who of MTG luminaries. Brian Kibler. Antonino De Rosa. Ben Rubin. Justin
Gary. Even Brian Hacker, who invented that thing called ??drafting??
that causes Daddy to swear at his computer screen.

Despite being about as far from famous as you could get, I was hired as
well, to do (what else?) content writing. Because the company was
growing fast, I was made to wear many different ??writing hats?? during
my tenure, one of which was that of a coverage reporter for the Vs.
System ??Pro Circuit.??

Now, I'm not going to say that Vs. System's Pro Circuit was a hollow
promotional monster that pandered to the KGB-quoting, Rounders
rewatching pokermania of the early 2000's (cough), but Johnny Chan and
Phil Ivey were given sponsors invites to the first event. They didn't
show. Neither did Garry Kasparov, who had also been invited. The ringers
who did show easily mopped the floor with the rubes, and Vs. System
quickly became known as ??free money.?? Guys would show up for the +EV
events but had no real emotional investment in the game. It wasn't being
played at a grassroots level. I heard more than one member of Vs. System
R&D lament that he couldn't quit working for Upper Deck in time to be
eligible to play in the Pro Circuit, since the events were so soft and
profitable.

But I digress. All you really need to know, sweetheart, is that I served
as a coverage reporter at only one of these Pro Circuits events and that
I failed to distinguish myself in the annals of journalism.

On Day 1 I was left to my own devices, having been instructed to come up
with several interesting ??features?? to go along with the match
reporting. The first feature I submitted was an article about three
teenagers who had slept in the open outside the convention center. I
thought it was an interesting way to highlight the indomitable gamer
spirit. This feature literally cost Upper Deck about \$500, as Jeff
Donais decided to put the three youths up in a hotel to avoid the
public-relations disaster that might spring from a *??Boy, Seeking Card
Fame, Murdered By Transient??* headline in the next morning's Detroit
Free Press.

Bad as that was, my second feature would have topped it, had it seen
print. One of the players at the Pro Circuit was a GIRL (gasp!), and I
thought this was noteworthy and worth an interview. Her name was Whitney
Sitzler, and that was probably the only non-asinine question I asked
her. I plunked down my voice recorder and for about 10-15 minutes
softballed, patronized, cajoled, and flirted my way through a terrible
interview featuring questions like: ??Have you ever gotten an advantage
in a game by being a girl??? and ??So, you're here with your husband???

Since I was 23 or 24 at the time and headstrong, I came dangerously
close to (yet again) getting away with this and learning nothing from
it. Luckily, the coverage editor for Metagame.com was Kate Sullivan, who
declared my Whitney Sitzler interview a worthless load of trash and saw
that it was never published. I never talked to Kate at length about
exactly what the problem was, but the idea that there was a problem was
enough to start the wheels turning in my head. I got my first sense that
there was something out there??a social issue and social responsibility
I couldn't detect, despite what I considered an open mind.

That germ of an idea would lay dormant for years, until I met your
mother in 2008. Like most couples do, pumpkin, we shared our interests
with each other, and I wanted to involve her in my interest??gaming.
Together, we passed the carefree days by playing Ascension, Magic
Online, and plowing through my endless collection of Japanese-developed
<span class="wikiword">RPGs</span>.

Oh, Japan. Nearly every female character we encountered was designed by
men, for men. Ridiculously proportioned, child-like in voice and
temperament, they were calculated to attract the subway-groping
attentions of the otaku. As a then-28-year-old who claimed to be at
least somewhat sophisticated, I found myself embarrassed by the
portrayals of women in every game we played. I hadn't remembered things
being THAT bad! But they were. As a younger man, I hadn't noticed it,
probably for the same reason I hadn't noticed that my SCG rants were
little more than loosely wrapped bindles of word-vomit.
Word-gurgitation, if you will.

??Man, the portrayals of women in video games are really complete
garbage,?? I realized. The gaming news seemed to match what I was seeing
everywhere in my old games and jumped out at me with a vibrant
wrongheadedness I'd until that point been unable to detect. When it was
announced that Soul Calibur V would take place 20 years in the future,
developers were quick to assure any sweating nebbishes that Ivy
Valentine, a popular female character with a figure that makes Christina
Hendricks look like a goal post, would not be aging. Instead, they would
wedge her into a time capsule. The lesson was clear??males can age in
fighting games, and females can't.

Didn't Tekken pull a twenty-year time leap once? I looked back. Every
male character??older. Every female character was either new, preserved
in a stasis tube, or had been replaced by her daughter.

\*Sigh\*

Don't even get me started on what they did to Samus Aran in Metroid:
Other M.

Hard as it was on me, it was hell for your mother??and I felt really bad
about that.

This was my hobby that I took so much pride in. I wanted to share gaming
with her, but gaming wasn't good enough. She enjoyed spending time with
me, but to get through the activity itself, she had to grit her teeth
and indulge me in so many embarrassing places. Gameplay rescued us
sometimes. Character design was a constant slap in the face, always
carrying the stink of demographic targeting and unabashed fan service.

??I want to see myself represented,?? she told me once, with a
bone-weariness that I knew I couldn't alleviate. I realized that most of
our tried-and-true narratives are taken from history and [thus exclude
women](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bLF6sAAMb4s). Any period piece
(Sengoku Japan, Early China, Ancient Rome, Prohibition-Era America)
automatically marginalizes women because, with a few exceptions, they
weren't allowed to do anything until about 1970. No matter how riveting
you think that Tom Hanks movie is where he's a mob hitman travelling the
country with his son, a woman will look at the screen and see no one
like herself and a story set in a time when women were barely allowed to
vote. Men get to imagine that we are Tom Hanks, and she gets to
imagine??what? Doing the dishes? Getting killed in the first five
minutes? My heart went out to her and to all women who wish to be space
captains and crime fighters and great historical figures.

Just by talking to a woman on a regular basis and re-experiencing games
with her added perspective; my view was changing. I realized that the
iceberg tip I had glimpsed years before, when I was told that my fluff
interview was not appropriate, was an honest-to-god civil rights issue,
right in front of my face, in my industry. In my hobby. Viewed in this
context, things that I would previously have ignored (or even laughed
at) started to stick out like sorest of thumbs.

Every day, some new evidence of anti-woman gaming attitudes would float
to the surface of the industry like a dead body. In the middle of
writing this section, in fact, it was pointed out to me that one of the
programmers coding Dead Island used ??<span
class="wikiword">FeministWhore</span>?? as the placeholder name for a
female character's ability and then skillfully left it in the debug code
for all gamers to discover.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitFW.jpg)

</div>

Gather round, kiddo. Let's see how male gamers responded to this on the
Steam user forums. They were up to all of their old tricks:

*??Sense of humor? No, they must be insensitive bigots, there's no other
possibility.??*

Minimizing the event. Hinting that those upset are ??irrational?? or
??emotional????

*??I don't think anyone gives a \*\*\*\* if it offends someone. It's
just a little joke within the game's files. It's not a T-rated game by
any means, and feminists are bitches anyway. Cry more.??*

Outright misogyny??

*??It's like getting mad at a perfectly good friend who has never
expressed a negative thought about anything because you broke into his
house and read his diary and found out something about him that you
didn't know.??*

Qualifications and excuses??

Honey, when I think about sitting beside you when you're older and
looking at these sorts of sentiments with you, digesting them together
with you, I get sad. I can barely imagine trying to explain to you that
this is what you're going to have to get used to if you want to be a
gamer. To many male gamers, feminist just means ??someone who will not
tolerate the only jokes I know how to make.?? That's why I'm thinking
really hard about whether I'd like you to be involved in gaming at all.

What about Magic: The Gathering? Do the players and industry
professionals involved have healthy views on gender? I'm glad that
you're curious about one of your father's favorite games??I know that
once you grow up and become a young woman, you probably won't have any
interest in my ??geezer?? activities at all! So I'll savor this while I
can. Let me answer that question by giving you this quiz. I know you
like quizzes. This one is fun as well as educational and will lead you
to several important conclusions about our community.

If you manage to get all three answers correct, I will buy you your
favorite ice cream.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitKrazyQuiz.jpg)

</div>

How do you think you did? I guess there's no need for me to actually
answer these??you're unencumbered by preconceptions in your tender
youth, and you know in your heart what the truth is. As a sportswriter
said after Bobby Thompson's ??Shot Heard Round the World,?? fiction is
dead. Only the truly outlandish will ever be believable again.

The reason I didn't flame Alyssa Bereznak is simple.

I'd changed. I was fed up. I'd sat beside your mother through all manner
of ignorance, stereotyping, and hate from male gamers, and I saw in the
response to Alyssa a shameful reflection of the attitudes I'd once had.
A reflection of my own viciousness, self-pity, and
entitlement??anti-qualities I'd once wielded with scornful, bullying
obliviousness in my own writing.

I was so sick of the avalanche of sexism that I wouldn't have criticized
Alyssa if she'd set Jon on fire during the date.

Now that I've explained why I didn't respond negatively to Alyssa
Bereznak, let's examine why so many male gamers did.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Pride
-----

<div class="indent">

<span style="font-size:120%">"It's not 'gee-dot, gee-dot', it's 'GG' you
young bitch!" -- Sean "Day[9]" Plott</span>

</div>

Try to forgive Day[9] for the above quote if you can find the generosity
in your little heart??like most male gamers, he doesn't understand that
gendered insults are wrong and off-putting to women. Since E-Sports is
even more male-dominated than Magic: The Gathering, he's probably never
been encouraged to censor himself in that way. That aside, every gamer
with even one living fiber in their blackened, cynical hearts likes
Day[9], including your dad. We can't get enough of that five o'clock
shadowed, super-enthusiastic teddy bear.

Thanks to another depressed high-school suspendee (apparently there are
a lot of us) named AJ Sacher, I recently rediscovered Day[9]'s seminal
[??My Life of StarCraft??](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NJztfsXKcPQ)
webcast episode. AJ is currently off somewhere making sure that Ali
Aintrazi takes no pleasure whatsoever in winning U.S. Nationals (in
fact, he pops out of a pile of loose clothing and beats Ali with reeds
whenever Ali smiles), but I should thank him for directing me to an
uplifting viewing experience, one that really encapsulates the joy and
jeopardy of being a competitive gamer.

Go ahead, click that link, and check it out! As you watch, you might
find yourself moved by Day[9]'s emotional recounting of the many
positive things that happened to him as a result of being unashamed of
his game of choice??<span class="wikiword">StarCraft</span>: Brood War.
When he's moved to tears recalling how he and his brother had supported
each other through the emotional roller coaster of tournament play, you
might find yourself moved with him. When he talks passionately about how
<span class="wikiword">StarCraft</span> is not something to be hidden
away but rather to be made a point of pride, you, caught up in his
breathless enthusiasm, might agree. And like many of us just over the
fence in CCG land, you might apply that sentiment to your favorite game,
whether it's an RTS, an MMORPG, or tiddlywinks.

*As a side note, since watching ??My Life of <span
class="wikiword">StarCraft</span>,?? I've become addicted to competitive
<span class="wikiword">StarCraft</span> 2 coverage and in fact skipped
all coverage of GP Pittsburgh in order to watch Koreans steamroll people
at MLG. Day[9] is my favorite caster for these events, combining honest
enthusiasm for the game with deep knowledge and a quirky sense of humor.
I'd go so far as to say that Day[9] and Apollo are the best casting team
available. Maybe someday you'll be behind the wheel of a Baneling bust!
Your old dad would be so proud. More likely, if you follow in my
footsteps, you'll be writing the tooltip for the Baneling. But
hey??either one is fine with me!*

Where was I? I'm sorry for getting sidetracked, kiddo??I just can't get
enough of cocky 80-pound Asians dropping Manner Mules on each other. The
point is, I like Day[9] and a lot of other gamers do too??and in
addition to being an accomplished player and the host of the much-loved
??Day[9] Daily,?? Day[9] is at the head of a sort of ??gamer pride??
movement epitomized by his slogan ??Be A Better Gamer.?? His website,
day9.tv, maintains an [E-Sports
??manifesto??](http://day9.tv/manifesto/) that explains what is meant by
gamer pride. I'll reproduce some of it here, and in the reading of it,
one can see how gamers would flock to it like ants to honey.

*We are more than stereotypes. We are adventurers and doctors, engineers
and entrepreneurs, journalists and lawyers, scientists and students. We
are smart, ambitious, and competitive. We are gamers.*

That's right! Time for all the members of the tribe to stand up and be
counted! To no longer cower in the dark, recessed corners of local
gaming shops but proudly proclaim for all to hear that gaming,
especially competitive gaming, with its travel and brutal practice
schedule, is a worthwhile activity that helps individuals grow and make
new friends. That it is not a foolish, guilty pleasure but a true
journey with its own wonderful rewards!

It continues:

*Play develops relationships and communities. We have fond memories of
growing up playing games with our friends and siblings. The gaming
experience bonds us together now, as it bonded us then. We discover
friends, partners, and spouses while gaming. We game with our children.
We transcend international borders when we play.*

Yes! Gosh, it all sounds so wonderful! Doesn't it just make you so happy
and proud to be a gamer? Finally, all that fear and apprehension you had
about your hobbies and your place in society is starting to alleviate.
You feel like you belong and that you're not crazy for thinking that
others should understand the value in your gaming activities! You've
found friends, fulfillment, and a career!

It was from this high perch of cultural self-satisfaction that gamers,
seeing Alyssa's frank assessment of Jon Finkel's dateability, howled
with outrage.

*??Strike one, strike two, strike three? How dare she! How dare a woman
not appreciate the value in something that makes us so happy, that
fulfills us, that has brought us so many friends???*

Time to prove to your old dad that you've been paying attention,
sweetheart. Remember back at the start of the ??Part of the Tribe??
section when I told you to remember an unattributed quote, because we'd
be coming back to it later? Here it is again:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="indent">

<span style="font-size:120%">"When you get to middle school, you get
segregated one way or another. Either you're cool or you're not. [We]
just found a way to be cool, and that's to be together."</span>

</div>

I bet your young, inquisitive mind has been tearing at its moorings,
just wondering who uttered it. Take a few guesses.

Dr. Martin Luther King? I'm sorry, sweetheart??but that was a good
guess.

Gandhi? Nice try, but no.

Kurt Cobain? I'm afraid you're wrong again, pumpkin.

In fact, it was this well-respected commentator:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitJuggalo.jpg)

</div>

Image Credit: Cracked.com. Okay, maybe not exactly this guy, but it is
an actual quote from [an actual
Juggalo](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Juggalo). Had Alyssa Bereznak seen
him on a date, the resulting article might have gone something like
this:

*Did he still throw bottles at people's heads? ??Yes.?? Strike one. How
often? ??Going to see Tila Tequila tonight with 24 Faygo empties.??
Strike two. Did he know how magnets work? 'No.' Strike three.*

My point is that one man's fulfilling, depression-alleviating friendship
machine is another woman's giant red flag.

Juggalos, like gamers, are known to be fiercely loyal to each other and
to take a dim view of those who don't value hatchet-murder and a willful
ignorance about magnetic fields. And while devotion to a certain
lifestyle and accompanying circle of like-minded friends can have
tremendous value for an individual, that value is very relative. It
doesn't represent equal value for a potential romantic partner.

Hear that, kiddo? When you grow up and find yourself on a blind date
with a man in clown makeup, you are well within your rights to make
polite conversation for a while (??Oh, you're mad fresh chillin' tonight
with 'Professa Fog?' How interesting!??) and then go home and blog about
your date. Your prospective beau, Mr. Thug Nutz, will just have to
accept that.

Gamers are unable to accept that.

Many gamers have cultivated a tremendous sense of pride because of the
efforts of Day[9] and others and see this cultivation as a marginalized
subgroup triumphing over the preconceptions of the mainstream. It is, in
many ways, a defense mechanism. They assign considerable value to
accomplishments made within their own sphere and strongly identify with
their gaming as a positive force, leaving them unable to accept the idea
that a romantic partner could consider it a negative.

This creates a problem. In the romantic arena, male gamers still act
like a cringing minority. This is despite the fact that until relatively
recently (and still in some parts of the world) women have had little
power to say ??no?? to a man, regardless of his unsuitability.

Don't be fooled, kiddo. Gamers are not a cringing minority but the same
scornful, entitled males you've been dealing with your entire life. And
this particular breed??fancying themselves unappreciated, intelligent,
and more worthy than other males of female attention??is in no mood for
rejection. Despite their pretention to a higher morality when it comes
to women, they will repay rejection with cruelty and scorn.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Fear
----

<div class="indent">

<span style="font-size:120%">"Man and women live in different worlds. At
core, men are afraid women will laugh at them, while at core, women are
afraid men will kill them." -- Gavin de Becker</span>

</div>

There's another reason that the response to Alyssa Bereznak was so
overwhelming, and it has nothing to do with gaming.

Gavin de Becker is an author who has written several books about the
nature of fear. In his book *The Gift of Fear: Survival Signals That
Protect Us From Violence*, he noted that the outcome a woman feared most
from any romantic encounter was rape and death. I know it must be really
hard on you, kiddo. You're going to go through life fearing that, in a
worst-case scenario, you could be sexually assaulted and murdered by a
member of the opposite sex. Sure, it's *likely* that something that
terrible will never come to pass (god forbid! I feel sick even talking
about it!), but there are no guarantees. In fact, some men (and
presumably some women writing for Gizmodo Australia) will tell you to
avoid drinking too much or wearing sexy clothes in order to spare
yourself such a dark outcome. Imagine that! Hinting that it'd be *your
fault*. It's tough being a girl, huh?

Now, pumpkin, pretend you're a man. What's your greatest fear in a
romantic situation?

Give up? More than anything, we fear being laughed at and made to feel
humiliated by the opposite sex.

I know, that worry must sound pretty awesome to you??a big improvement
from what you've had to worry about. Well, most men don't see it that
way. Men hate when women laugh at them. It makes them feel powerless and
afraid and out of control, and when it happens they lash out.

Guess who recently laughed at a big group of men?

If you said Alyssa Bereznak, you're a good guesser. And when she did it
so publically and with such apparent disregard for the tolerance to
which gamers felt entitled, things got nasty. She had made them feel
vulnerable, returned to the forefront of their minds those memories of
rejection, those long nights spent brooding, telling themselves ??if a
woman would just get to know me, she'd fall in love.?? The readers of
her article had thought the universal acceptance of their fetishistic
gamer culture close at hand but were confronted by a maddening
truth??that their ways and customs were, for many potential romantic
partners, still a turn-off.

Alyssa called Jon, through whom all gamerdom vicariously sat across from
her, a ??champion of dweebs.?? Her laugh could be heard echoing across
the internet, and the silhouette of her chortling, dismissive mouth was
like a Bat Signal for every humiliated and fearful geek to whom the
marginalization of his identity was an affront. In that instant, gamers
felt so much pride, and so much fear, that they became not the evolved
renaissance men of gaming to which Day[9]'s Manifesto had so cheerfully
referred, but the knuckle-dragging apes of their ideal.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Bonus Material
--------------

<div class="indent">

<span style="font-size:120%">"Did he still play? **'Yes.'** Strike on.
How often? **'I'm Preparing for a tournament this weekend.'** Strike
two. Who did he hang out with? **'I've met all my best friends through
Magic.'** Strike three." -- Alyssa Bereznak</span>

</div>

Sorry to keep you up past your bedtime, sweetheart. Let's talk about
some other articles that came to light in the wake of Alyssa's??articles
very germane to the issue of gamer relationships and the expectations
placed on women.

In the closing moments of the \#Finkeldate brouhaha, Aaron Forsythe,
director of Magic R&D and all-around smart cookie, linked to [an old
article that his wife Anne had
written](http://www.starcitygames.com/magic/misc/1295_The_Other_Women_Of_Magic_Dating_A_Pro_Player.html)
nearly a decade before. Magic articles written by women are rare, and
this one, offering a unique view into the relationship obstacles that
are bound to appear when dating a player, is a pearl beyond price. In
reading it, I was struck by how much sacrifice was asked of Anne.

Some quotes from the article are telling.

*??Magic: The Gathering is a common source of tension in many
relationships. I met a player at Worlds in Belgium this past summer who
confessed that he divorced his first wife (and the mother of his child)
over this game due to her lack of understanding.??*

**Her** lack of understanding. Obviously, right?

*??I have reached the point where all of you Magic players send me your
resumes and lists of things you do besides play Magic, or where all of
the female Magic players illustrate how insanely busy they are and still
manage to play this game and be happy with their men. But I could not
stomach the thought of spending my free time learning a 'game' that was
more difficult to me than Economics of Corporation Finance. By nature, I
am not a gamer.??*

Women don't want to get into a relationship where they're playing second
fiddle to an obsession. They shouldn't be required to and shouldn't be
made to feel guilty for it either. Just because Magic has created value
for you doesn't mean that it will create value in your relationship.
Women are allowed to make these decisions for themselves.

*??It took Aaron several minutes to look up from his game, recognize
that I was even there, and to then give me a short and not-so-sweet
brush off. After several weeks of this, I just stopped stopping by."*

Every woman who has ever dated a gamer has some version of this story.
Many waste months or years of their lives reliving this same scenario
time and again. Magic players, because of the value they feel Magic
creates for them, feel entitled to play. Especially when they fancy
themselves a career gamer, they don't see how it could possibly be
wrong.

The article then goes on to talk about how things came to a head??the
relationship deteriorated because of a divergence of interests and time
spent apart??and eventual reconciliation. During the low times, you can
get a sense of how desperately Anne wants to be with Aaron and how much
of a hardship it must be to be apart from him, or the second thing on
his mind after Magic. ??Aaron wanted me waiting in the wings for him to
finish playing,?? she said, and she was unwilling to accept it.

There is a happy ending to this story, as Anne and Aaron have many
children, and Aaron has a fine career in the gaming industry, one that
wouldn't have been available to him without a large amount of Magic
play. It is not fair to ask every woman to take that chance, though. For
each Aaron Forsythe and Jon Finkel, there are thousands of guys tossing
and turning in their soggy underdrawers, dreaming of beating Team <span
class="wikiword">SoloMid</span> in the finals of a <span
class="wikiword">LoL</span> tournament. Guys who will ignore their
significant others unto complete emotional suffering as they rot in
their basements. Guys who will burn crucial family funds to furnish
their decks with four copies of <span class="wikiword">WotC</span>'s
latest gilded embuggerance.

Let's look back again at Alyssa's article and that series of statements
she made for which she was harshly criticized as ??shallow.??

*??Did he still play? 'Yes.' Strike one. How often? 'I'm preparing for a
tournament this weekend.' Strike two. Who did he hang out with? 'I've
met all my best friends through Magic.' Strike three.??*

It was Anne Forsythe's article that really crystallized in my mind the
truth that these questions, and the conclusions Alyssa drew from them,
are totally legitimate and within her rights. More than that, they don't
represent shallowness but a preemptive strike against being treated like
a mere accessory. A gamer might promise to treat his partner better than
??some alpha male,?? but what he really wants is a partner who will pop
out of a Pok??ball when A WILD LONELINESS APPEARS, use the FORNICATION
ability, and then retreat mutely back into his collection, dormant until
needed again.

Are you hearing me, kiddo? Listen to your old dad. Eventually you might
meet some boy who plays Magic. If you *choose* not to begin a
relationship with him because he's too deep into the game and all his
friends play too, that doesn't mean that anything is wrong with you. You
are not shallow or judgmental; you are not necessarily passing up ??a
great guy.?? You don't have to play second fiddle to a game, and you
don't have to accept his guilt-tripping and the cruelty of his friends,
all of whom play, all of whom resent you for the loss of their raiding
buddy or playtest partner. You don't have to accept his culture and that
culture's ignorance to your needs, nor do you have to subject yourself
to their biases.

If someone dares call you shallow for defending your own happiness that
way, I want you to draw yourself up to your full 5'2?? inches in height
(I'm sorry that your mother and I are both short, it couldn't be helped)
and tell that person to jump in a lake.

That's a good girl.

Anyway, I had little doubt that most Magic players would consider Anne's
article ??inspirational?? and applaud her for compromising and ensuring
a happily-ever-after, but I couldn't be sure of their true feelings
because the forums had been lost to time.

Enter Todd Anderson.

When I had last heard from Todd, he was proving you don't have to work
security at a Japanese hotel to get into a scuffle with <span
class="wikiword">GerryT</span>. [With this
article](http://www.starcitygames.com/magic/misc/22690_Constructed_Criticism_Living_The_Dream_Of_Pro_Magic.html)
he threw his hat back into the ??raw slice of life?? ring that had
garnered him heavy response before. After reading it, I knew I'd have to
write something, not just because of the inexplicable content, but
because of the predictable reaction. It was either that, or explode.

??I'm sure he's just going to get a lot of support from teenage buffoons
yelling 'Way to live the dream!'?? I said to myself, and I wasn't
disappointed. Some people objected, but nobody mentioned what I
considered to be the worst problem with the piece??that it transitioned
directly from his wife's tearful breakdown and apology into Todd waking
up in an idyllic land of orgiastic gaming happiness, unburdened by
filial encumbrances.

Here's the Cliff Notes version of the article:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

![](http://static.starcitygames.com/www/images/article/092011taitCliffNotes.jpg)

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="background-color: black; color: white;">

1.  Author paints self as n irrsponsible drunk.
2.  Wife breaks down in tears, thinks everything is her fault.
3.  "..."
4.  Profit!!

</div>

The only line of demarcation between his wife admitting all wrongdoing
and Todd having ??the happiest day of his life?? was an ellipsis.

Three dots.

I'd rather tell you that Todd launched into an explanation of their
ensuing conversation and compromise, or that Todd consoled her and told
her that it wasn't her fault at all, but that he wanted to find a way
for both of them to be happy, or that Todd knelt beside her and kissed
her softly and made everything better, or that Todd shook his head and
said ??no, don't be ridiculous??you can't blame yourself.?? But
according to his account, he didn't. He figured it was fine as is and
gave his pen the signal to wrap things up, hitting 2,500 words almost
exactly.

*This next section is mean. It's about a boy who really disliked a piece
of writing.*

I hated the article.

I hated the decision the author made to paint himself in a negative
light and then not pay off on it.

I hated the unseemliness of publishing such a one-sided treatment of a
tense marital issue.

I hated the presumption to an italicized, fancy-schmancy narrative form,
in light of the botched execution.

I hated the comically abrupt ending and lack of further discussion about
what had just transpired.

I hated the implied ??Forget that Alyssa, here's what a woman should
do?? message in publishing it so soon after \#Finkeldate.

I hated Todd's implied satisfaction with his wife's self-blame, which he
didn't bother to respond to or correct in the article.

I hated the sinister implication that ??the gift of happiness?? consists
of a woman absolving a man of all blame and taking it all upon herself.

I hated the buffoons in the comments, creaming themselves and asking
Todd when he's getting his book deal.

I hated the lack of awareness of any of these problems, on the part of
both the author and a huge percentage of the commenters.

I especially hated the implied insult to the readership that this was
something they'd find inspirational.

I wanted to scream out to everyone on <span
class="wikiword">StarCityGames</span>.com:

*Take a look at this. THIS is what a male gaming writer believes will
resonate with OUR community. Todd feels comfortable publishing this, a
parable in which ??Wife the Redeemer?? takes away the expectations of
the world even as she drives the nails into her own palms. He thinks
that you, the people who play Magic: The Gathering, will not see
anything sinister here. A woman expected things of him; he was
miserable. Now, she expects nothing, and he is happy. He believes you
will relate to this, that you hope for wives and girlfriends who will
make similar sacrifices, and that you'd be happy that such things be
expected of your daughters from the grinders they'll no doubt marry.*

The above theoretical scream doesn't even begin to address the effect
the article might have on female readers. I initially hid the article's
existence from your mother, knowing it would infuriate and depress her.

I'll tell you what, pumpkin??if I had written it, you'd be receiving
this letter from the pearly gates because your mother would have killed
me in my sleep, immediately upon publication. The first night. I would
have woken up to the sting of a hypodermic needle, found myself
sluggish, and then she would have hobbled me like in Stephen King's
Misery. She would have jammed the barrel of a revolver where the sun
don't shine and pulled the trigger until it went click. (I'm sorry if
that's too much information for you.)

Really, I can't imagine any woman reading this article and being
comfortable with what's in it. I can't imagine Todd's wife read it prior
to publication. He must have written it in secret, strapped the
manuscript to the back of a ninja, and had it transported to SCG
headquarters on a moonless night.

The unreal part is that I know Todd meant it to be an inspirational
story and had no bad intentions at all. He didn't write the article
aiming for any anti-woman bias or message. He was just pounding out a
cathartic slice of Todd Anderson Life for his loyal readers. It's
because of male privilege and an absence of female perspective in gaming
that Todd could tell his story the way he told it, focusing on the
things he did.

Meanwhile, just a stone's throw away in another circle of the internet,
the same readership was tearing down a woman because she didn't want to
give a Magic player a chance.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Conclusion
----------

To all my gamer pals who were reading along with this letter:

There's a true civil rights issue right in front of us, waiting to be
addressed. It is parallel to other worthwhile causes that many of us
already accept and cherish, such as LGBT rights, and it affects many
people we love. This isn't some long-ago civil rights movement in a
moldering textbook??it's happening in the gaming community, right now. I
know, you're a gamer, you're an angle-shooter, you voided a black pool
of nihilism down your own unsteady leg at age 16, and you've been
floundering in it ever since. Well, here's a cause that doesn't require
you to attend any rallies or put up any posters. It's more ubiquitous
than politics, ethnicities, or economics, and it reaches right to your
computer screen. You can contribute to this cause simply by tempering
your own words and behavior and thinking twice about the language you
use on message boards, the products and depictions you support, and the
jokes you tell.

Resist the belief that you know everything about the issue already.
Feminism is an actual field of study. As with any field of study, it
should be entered with an absence of preconceptions. If a woman has
strong feelings about women's issues, it doesn't mean she spends all of
her time sharpening her castration tools. Talk to women about what's
important to them. As you learn more, you'll understand more, in the
same way that a budding engineer might gradually grow to understand a
complex blueprint. If your first instinct when you hear the word
??feminist?? is to say ??those man-haters want equality, but they still
want me to pay for everything, hurf durf!?? then you currently have as
accurate an understanding of feminism as a confectioner would have of a
Titan II missile schematic. You know those congressmen who say that
Grand Theft Auto IV is a ??crime simulator?? that is ??training new
felons??? That's you, and feminism.

I know you can do better.

The response to Alyssa Bereznak, even as a show of solidarity behind one
of Magic's biggest names, was embarrassing. We looked like a bunch of
jackasses. The quick jabs were crude and malicious, and the longer
responses were all carbon copies of the same whiny ??shame on you, give
geeks a chance, you might enjoy Mage Knight!?? mantra. Nobody seemed to
gain any additional perspective as time passed, either, with
late-to-the-party buffoons gleefully diving in for b-word number 43,293.

I kinda sorta forgive you, the same way I kinda sorta forgive myself for
those stupid articles in 2002. Whether you sent some nasty tweets,
vocally dismissed Alyssa outright as a shallow waste of space, or are
helpless with incredulity right now as you read a faux letter that you
believe to be utter tripe, I know that it all feels very justified and
comfortable to you. For some of you, it may take a woman's voice for
progress to occur, perhaps even a succession of them over a period of
years. I have faith in you, even if you're right now feeling angry at me
and mentally reserving the right to flame ??bitchy?? articles written by
??bitches.??

Finally, *to the young girl I've seen only in my imagination, my someday
daughter:*

I hope that by the time you grow up, things will have changed.

If they haven't, and you find yourself being treated poorly,
marginalized, objectified and idealized, infuriated, ignored, shoved
aside, held to a double standard, emotionally blackmailed, taunted and
insulted, overlooked and under-appreciated, your wishes dismissed, your
gender reduced to a vulgarity, slut-shamed and resented, I hope you will
still keep your head high and pursue your dreams.

This has been my contribution to a better gaming culture for you, and
for every other woman. If you want to do what Daddy does, you shouldn't
have to play with such mean boys.

---

[Geordie
Tait](http://www.starcitygames.com/pages/articlefinder.php?keyword=Geordie+Tait)

[@Geordie\_Tait](http://twitter.com/Geordie_Tait) on Twitter

FP\_GLyM on MTGO

Title art by [Justin
Treadway](http://othersideoftheplanet.wordpress.com/).

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
