<div id="wikitext">

Link: [Gmail - The energy of
depression](https://mail.google.com/mail/ca/u/0/?ui=2&ik=644f5ad18e&view=pt&search=inbox&th=1383c41f2628b8d4)

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="round lrindent quote">

The energy of depression
------------------------

<div id="sourceblock1" class="sourceblock">

<div class="sourceblocktext">

<div class="email">

<span class="sc0"><span class="kw3">From</span><span
class="sy0">:</span> Buddhism Connect <span class="sy0">\<</span><span
class="re2">buddhismconnect@app.topica.com</span><span
class="sy0">\></span> </span>\
 <span class="sc0"><span class="kw3">Date</span><span
class="sy0">:</span> Sat, Jun 30, 2012 at 2<span class="sy0">:</span>15
AM</span>\
 <span class="sc0"><span class="kw2">Reply-To</span><span
class="sy0">:</span> <span
class="re2">support@buddhism-connect.org</span></span>\
 <span class="sc0"><span class="kw3">Subject</span><span
class="sy0">:</span> Buddhism Connect<span class="sy0">:</span> Email
Teachings</span>

</div>

</div>

<div class="sourceblocklink">

[raw
code](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedLinks.BuddhismConnectEmailTeachingsTheEnergyOfDepression?action=sourceblock&num=1)

</div>

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

### A student asks:

Can you give me some hints about how to practice with depression?

<div class="vspace">

</div>

### Lama Shenpen replies:

Depression is a huge topic, isn’t it? I understand what you are saying
about it not lifting – just feeling like being squeezed and however much
you tell yourself its simply experience and there is no need to struggle
with it, that deadness is somehow all pervading and as you say heavy. In
Tibetan they refer to this condition in terms of prana or energy
flow……subtle mind energy or even heart or life energy….life itself…..our
life force and it does get blocked which implies its natural mode is to
flow….and it flows along channels which are equally mysterious and
subtle……….and the mind and the body is enlivened and functions by this
energy flow. Sometimes the blockage is so strongly held in the body that
actual body movement helps to get the flow going again better than
trying to push your mind to do something. Even changes in our body
chemistry brought on by anti-depression drugs can help.

Distractions can help if it’s a mild blockage - somehow they let the
mind relax enough for something to unfreeze, but sometimes it just makes
things worse because you don’t really get to the root of the blockage.
In a way the whole of samsara is like blockages in the flow of the life
energy - you could think of it like that! Depression is just a very
intense experience of just how bad that kind of blockage can get. I am
not sure there is a lot one can do in terms of meditation when the
blockage is very strong, but in general it is very important what kind
of thoughts you cultivate and believe in, both when depressed and when
out of it – I think everyone who has had to suffer a lot of depression
knows this much better than I do, and I guess that is what you are
saying basically. I don’t really have a lot to add to that. All aspects
of Dharma practice can help and sometimes nothing helps, but as you say
even if thinking of impermanence doesn’t help, in fact all mental states
are impermanent and so all we can do is hang on in there and learn how
to navigate our way through them. At least you can remember to be kind
to yourself and not make things worse by telling yourself you are a
failure. You can tell yourself that even after spending a long time in
such a state it is possible to suddenly pop out of it and become
enlightened!

I hope this helps.

</div>

Posted: 2012-06-30T20:08:47-0500

</div>
