<div id="wikitext">

Source:
<http://boingboing.net/2012/07/21/how-the-eagle-landed-the-grum.html>\
Page saved at: Fri, 17 Aug 2012 13:30:34 -0500

<div class="vspace">

</div>

[How the Eagle Landed: Grumman Construction Log, and a message to space (Apollo 11)](http://boingboing.net/2012/07/21/how-the-eagle-landed-the-grum.html)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

By [Xeni Jardin](http://boingboing.net/author/xeni_jardin) at 8:01 am
Saturday, Jul 21

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://boingboing.net/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/7610058658_4ecb7a07c9_b.jpg)

</div>

On the anniversary of Apollo 11, [Steve
Jurvetson](http://www.DFJ.com/steve) posted an [amazing,
never-before-seen series of space
artifacts](http://www.flickr.com/photos/jurvetson/7610058658). He
writes:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="indent">

On July 20, 1969, Eagle landed on the moon. These are the handwritten
notes from the Grumman engineers as they pushed to complete Lunar Module
LM-5 in 1968. On the last page, they learn than this particular Lunar
Module would be the one to bring the first humans to the moon.The
Grumman Engineering Log served not only as an engineering notebook but
also as an intercom between the day and night shift – separate teams
that needed to push the ball forward from where the other left off. So
we are offered a rare peek into the concerns, uncertainties and
conversations that might have otherwise been quietly undocumented.This
log has informed the writing of Pellegrino’s book Chariots for Apollo,
but only a few scholars have had access to these pages to date. Heritage
reported that this original document is the only one in existence, with
no copy on file anywhere. So I thought it would be good to make a color
scan of the entire book, and make it available to all. So, [here is the
PDF file
(8MB)](http://www.dfj.com/ApolloConstruction/Apollo_11_LM-5_Construction_Log.pdf).My
hope is that we can collectively decode some of its mysteries, or better
yet, find some of the engineers to see if it jogs their memories. There
is a list of all of the engineers on p.2. We only have first initial and
last names. So any insights to the full names or their whereabouts would
be appreciated.I am also hoping that space historians who come across
interesting passages can share what they know in the comments below
(with reference to date or page number). Are any of the part numbers
significant, especially those swapped between the Apollo 9,11,12 and 13
Lunar Modules? I will also add a glossary of acronyms below as we decode
them. Also, if anyone can OCR the hybrid handwriting, please do. Our
attempts with free OCR tools have failed so far.

</div>

[Here's the Flickr
page](http://www.flickr.com/photos/jurvetson/7610058658/in/photostream/),
with lots more details, and lots more links.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

[![](http://boingboing.net/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/steve.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/jurvetson/7414095688)
At left, [Steve with a prototype
build](http://www.flickr.com/photos/jurvetson/7414095688) of the first
flagpole assembly on the moon.

</div>

"I brought it to Buzz Aldrin, and his eyes went wide," he says. "But
from what I learned, there probably is no Apollo 11 flag on the moon
today."

How exciting. Happy space-a-versary, everyone!

And here's another [amazing artifact photographed by
Steve](http://www.flickr.com/photos/jurvetson/7587516790/in/photostream/),
below: a silicon disc, FROM PLANET EARTH.

On the [Flickr page for this
photo](http://www.flickr.com/photos/jurvetson/7587516790/in/photostream/),
Steve writes:\

<div class="indent">

On this day in 1969, Apollo 11 took flight to the moon. In the days that
preceded the launch, the U.S. scrambled to pull together the messages
from Earth that would be left behind on the moon. This is the Apollo
Goodwill Disc, and it was engineered to last long after [the U.S.
flag](http://www.flickr.com/photos/jurvetson/7414095688) was
destroyed."This silicon disc contains etched letters (scanned and
reduced 200x) from the leaders of the world’s nations. This is one of
the discs produced by Sprague and retained by a Sprague manager; a
second resides in the Smithsonian, and a third rests on the Moon's Sea
of Tranquility, deposited there by Buzz Aldrin.(Does anyone know if
other builds remain intact? A Sprague press release says that of the
handful of discs made, one was given to President Nixon and one to
President Johnson).It is a tricky subject matter for photography. I
wanted to capture the angle-dependendent iridescence of the
semiconductor thin films. The overhead light source reflects off the
leather seat cushion, revealing the shift from green to purple that
occurs at oblique angles.This comes from the early days of the
semiconductor industry, when Apollo consumed 50% of global production,
and wafers were just 2” wide (the ultimate disc was cropped around the
1.5” metallized ring and placed in a aluminum case).

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://boingboing.net/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/7587516790_140870b96d_h.jpg)

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
