<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:a Study conducted to see if people could train themselves to
have synesthesia Parent:<span
class="wikiword">[SavedLinks](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedLinks.HomePage?action=print)</span>(.<span
class="wikiword">[HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedLinks.HomePage?action=print)</span>)
<span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedLinks.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedLinks.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[SavedLinks](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedLinks.HomePage?action=print)
Categories:[Links](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Links) Tags:
psychology, synesthesia

</div>

Link: [PLoS ONE: Pseudo-Synesthesia through Reading Books with Colored
Letters](http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0039799#s1)

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="round lrindent quote">

Abstract
--------

### Background

Synesthesia is a phenomenon where a stimulus produces consistent
extraordinary subjective experiences. A relatively common type of
synesthesia involves perception of color when viewing letters (e.g. the
letter ‘a’ always appears as light blue). In this study, we examine
whether traits typically regarded as markers of synesthesia can be
acquired by simply reading in color.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

### Methodology/Principal Findings

Non-synesthetes were given specially prepared colored books to read. A
modified Stroop task was administered before and after reading. A
perceptual crowding task was administered after reading. Reading one
book (\>49,000 words) was sufficient to induce effects regarded as
behavioral markers for synesthesia. The results of the Stroop tasks
indicate that it is possible to learn letter-color associations through
reading in color (F(1, 14) = 5.85, p = .030). Furthermore, Stroop
effects correlated with subjective reports about experiencing letters in
color (r(13) = 0.51, p = .05). The frequency of viewing letters is
related to the level of association as seen by the difference in the
Stroop effect size between upper- and lower-case letters (t(14) = 2.79,
p = .014) and in a subgroup of participants whose Stroop effects
increased as they continued to read in color. Readers did not show
significant performance advantages on the crowding task compared to
controls. Acknowledging the many differences between trainees and
synesthetes, results suggest that it may be possible to acquire a subset
of synesthetic behavioral traits in adulthood through training.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

### Conclusion/Significance

To our knowledge, this is the first evidence of acquiring letter-color
associations through reading in color. Reading in color appears to be a
promising avenue in which we may explore the differences and
similarities between synesthetes and non-synesthetes. Additionally,
reading in color is a plausible method for a long-term ‘synesthetic’
training program.

</div>

Posted: 2012-07-09

Additional articles:

-   [Can You Learn To Be Synaesthetic?
    (neuroskeptic)](http://neuroskeptic.blogspot.co.uk/2012/07/can-you-learn-to-be-synaesthetic.html)
-   [Can You Teach Yourself Synesthesia? By Megan Garber in the
    Atlanic](http://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2012/07/can-you-teach-yourself-synesthesia/259519/)

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://cdn.theatlantic.com/static/mt/assets/science/Synaesthesia615.jpeg)\
Wikipedia Commons

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
