<div id="wikitext">

Official White House Response to Secure resources and funding, and begin
construction of a Death Star by 2016.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

This Isn't the Petition Response You're Looking For
===================================================

By Paul Shawcross

The Administration shares your desire for job creation and a strong
national defense, but a Death Star isn't on the horizon. Here are a few
reasons:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

-   The construction of the Death Star [has been
    estimated](http://www4.lehigh.edu/business/about/deathstar.aspx) to
    cost more than \$850,000,000,000,000,000. We're working hard to
    reduce the deficit, not expand it.
-   The Administration does not support blowing up planets.
-   Why would we spend countless taxpayer dollars on a Death Star with a
    fundamental flaw that can be exploited by a one-man starship?

However, look carefully ([here's how](http://spotthestation.nasa.gov/))
and you'll notice something already floating in the sky -- that's no
Moon, it's a Space Station! Yes, we already have a giant, football
field-sized [International Space
Station](http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/station/main/index.html) in
orbit around the Earth that's helping us learn how humans can live and
thrive in space for long durations. The Space Station has six
astronauts -- American, Russian, and Canadian -- living in it right now,
conducting research, learning how to live and work in space over long
periods of time, routinely welcoming visiting spacecraft and repairing
onboard garbage mashers, etc. We've also got two robot science labs --
[one wielding a
laser](http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/msl/index.html) -- roving
around Mars, looking at whether life ever existed on the Red Planet.

Keep in mind, space is no longer just government-only. Private American
companies, through [NASA's Commercial Crew and Cargo Program Office
(C3PO)](http://www.nasa.gov/offices/c3po/home/index.html), are ferrying
cargo -- and soon, crew -- to space for NASA, and are pursuing [human
missions to the Moon this decade](http://goldenspikecompany.com/).

Even though the United States doesn't have anything that can do the
Kessel Run in less than 12 parsecs, we've got [two spacecraft leaving
the Solar System](http://voyager.jpl.nasa.gov/) and we're building a
[probe that will fly to the exterior layers of the
Sun](http://solarprobe.jhuapl.edu/). We are discovering [hundreds of new
planets in other star systems](http://kepler.nasa.gov/) and building a
much more [powerful successor to the Hubble Space
Telescope](http://www.jwst.nasa.gov/about.html) that will see back to
the early days of the universe.

We don't have a Death Star, but we do have [floating robot
assistants](http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/station/main/spheres.html)
on the Space Station, a President who knows his way around a [light
saber](http://www.flickr.com/photos/whitehouse/3994322108/) and
[advanced (marshmallow)
cannon](http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2012/02/07/president-obama-launches-marshmallow-cannon),
and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, which is supporting
research on building [Luke's
arm](http://www.dekaresearch.com/deka_arm.shtml), floating
[droids](http://www.darpa.mil/NewsEvents/Releases/2012/12/06.aspx), and
quadruped
[walkers](http://www.darpa.mil/newsevents/releases/2012/09/10.aspx).

We are living in the future! Enjoy it. Or better yet, help build it by
pursuing a career in a science, technology, engineering or math-related
field. The President has held [the
first-ever](http://www.whitehouse.gov/photos-and-video/video/2010/10/27/first-ever-white-house-science-fair)
White House [science
fairs](http://www.whitehouse.gov/photos-and-video/video/2012/02/09/2012-white-house-science-fair)
and [Astronomy Night on the South
Lawn](http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/Always-Reach-for-the-Stars-Astronomy-Night-at-the-White-House)
because he knows these domains are critical to our country's future, and
to ensuring the United States continues leading the world in doing big
things.

If you do pursue a career in a science, technology, engineering or
math-related field, the Force will be with us! Remember, the Death
Star's power to destroy a planet, or even a whole star system, is
insignificant next to the power of the Force.

*Paul Shawcross is Chief of the Science and Space Branch at the White
House Office of Management and Budget*

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="display: none;">

Summary: a short description of the page Tags: saved page Source:
<https://petitions.whitehouse.gov/response/isnt-petition-response-youre-looking>
Parent: includeme:
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles)

</div>

Page saved at: Fri, 11 Jan 2013 21:50:07 -0600

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
