<div id="wikitext">

From: [Neuroskeptic](http://neuroskeptic.blogspot.co.uk/)
=========================================================

Wednesday, 24 November 2010

Dante's *[Inferno](http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/997)*: a classic of
world literature, the definitive statement of the mediaeval Christian
world-view, the first major work in the Italian language, and the basis
for a [violent videogame](http://www.dantesinferno.com/home.action). The
poem offers a tour through the nine increasingly horrible levels of
Hell, in which sinners are tormented forever.

But Dante lived before the era of modern science. I thought I'd update
his scheme to explain what happens to those guilty of various scientific
sins, ranging from the commonplace to the shocking.

Bear in mind that Dante's Hell had a place for everyone, and it was only
Christ's intervention that saved anyone from it; even "good" people went
to Hell because everyone sins. But they are still sins. Likewise, very
few scientists (and I'm certainly not one of them) would be able to
avoid being condemned to some level of this Inferno... but, that's no
excuse.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="frame" style="margin: 3px auto;">

<div>

![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_zE8CzamN1Y0/TOztNQPPuGI/AAAAAAAABio/kZqETJCO4rY/s1600/untitled.JPG)

</div>

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

First Circle: Limbo
-------------------

"The uppermost circle is not a place of punishment, so much as regret.
Those who have committed no scientific sins as such, but who turned a
blind eye to it, and encouraged it by their awarding of grants and
publications, spend eternity on top of this barren mountain, watching
the carnage below and reflecting on how they are partially
responsible..."

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Second Circle: Overselling
--------------------------

"This circle is reserved for those who exaggerated the importantance of
their work in order to get grants or write better papers. Sinners are
trapped in a huge pit, neck-deep in horrible sludge. Each sinner is
provided with the single rung of a ladder, labelled 'The Way Out -
Scientists Crack Problem of Second Circle of Hell"

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Third Circle: Post-Hoc Storytelling
-----------------------------------

"Sinners condemned to this circle must constantly dodge the attacks of
demons armed with bows and arrows, firing more or less at random. Every
time someone is hit in some part of their body, the demon proceeds to
explain at enormous length how they were aiming for that exact spot all
along."

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Fourth Circle: P-Value Fishing
------------------------------

"Those who tried every statistical test in the book until they got a p
value less than 0.05 find themselves here, an enormous lake of murky
water. Sinners sit on boats and must fish for their food. Fortunately,
they have a huge selection of different fishing rods and nets
(brandnames include Bayes, Student, Spearman and many more).
Unfortunately, only one in 20 fish are edible, so they are constantly
hungry."

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Fifth Circle: Creative Use of Outliers
--------------------------------------

"Those who 'cleaned up' their results by excluding inconvenient
data-points are condemned here. Demons pluck out their hairs one by one,
every time explaining that they are better off without that hair because
there was something wrong with it."

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Sixth Circle: Plagiarism
------------------------

"This circle is entirely empty because as soon as a sinner arrives, a
winged demon carries them to another circle and forces them to suffer
the punishment meted out to the people there. After their 3 year "post"
is up, they are carried to another circle, and so on..."

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Seventh Circle: Non-Publication of Data
---------------------------------------

"Here sinners are chained to burning chairs in front of desks covered
with broken typewriters. Only if they can write an article describing
their predicament, will they be set free. Each desk has a file-drawer
stuffed full of these, but the drawers are locked.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Eighth Circle: Partial Publication of Data
------------------------------------------

"At any one time exactly half of the sinners here are chased around by
demons prodding them with spears. The demons choose who to chase at
random after ensuring that the groups are matched for age, gender,
height and weight. Howling desert winds blow a constant torrent of
articles announcing the success of a new program to enhance
participation in physical exercise - but with no mention of the side
effects."

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Ninth Circle: Inventing Data
----------------------------

"Here Satan himself lies trapped forever in a block of solid ice
alongside the worst sinners of all. Frozen in front of their eyes is a
paper explaining very convincingly that water cannot freeze in the
environmental conditions of this part of Hell. Unfortunately, the data
were made up."

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:A humourous article showing the author's rendition of Dante's
"Nine Circles of Hell" adapted for scientists. Parent:<span
class="wikiword">[SavedArticles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>(.<span
class="wikiword">[HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>)
<span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[SavedArticles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)
Source:
<http://neuroskeptic.blogspot.co.uk/2010/11/9-circles-of-scientific-hell.html>
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles) Tags:
science, humour, hell, circles

</div>

Page saved at: Thu, 08 Nov 2012 21:02:07 -0600

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
