<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:Email teaching from Lama Shenpen on the nature of pain
Source:Buddhism Connect: Email Teachings
<http://buddhismconnect.c.topica.com/maapI7vab8ZrubriOFWeaeQC5S/>
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles),[Humanism](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Humanism)
Tags: pain, buddhism Parent:<span
class="wikiword">[SavedArticles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>(.<span
class="wikiword">[HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>)
<span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[SavedArticles.HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div id="sourceblock1" class="sourceblock">

<div class="sourceblocktext">

<div class="email">

<span class="sc0"><span class="kw3">From</span><span
class="sy0">:</span> Buddhism Connect <span class="sy0">\<</span><span
class="re2">buddhismconnect@app.topica.com</span><span
class="sy0">\></span></span>\
 <span class="sc0"><span class="kw3">Subject</span><span
class="sy0">:</span> How thinking can make pain worse</span>\
 <span class="sc0"><span class="kw3">Date</span><span
class="sy0">:</span> <span class="re3">Sat, 09 Jun 2012 <span
class="re4">00:15:00</span> -0700</span></span>

</div>

</div>

<div class="sourceblocklink">

</div>

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

How thinking can make pain worse
--------------------------------

Summary
:   Pain is the nature of Samsara and it will be with us for the whole
    of the path. We can however learn not to make it worse by adding to
    it the suffering caused by negative thinking, such as *“I can't
    stand this”*. Thoughts like this are unnecessary and we can let them
    go.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

### A student asks:

I experience a great deal of physical pain and struggle to understand
why. I can only come up with the fact that everyone suffers. Some people
talk as if I could be rid of my pain if only I could get my mind set
right, which doesn't help me. I try to stay in the moment and enjoy each
moment, but would be grateful for some advice.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

### Lama Shenpen replies:

As far as making sense of the pain is concerned I think the only thing
to think is that pain is the nature of samsara. It is the first Noble
Truth the Buddha taught because he was not out to deceive us. He
elevated it to a Noble Truth because until we truly understand the depth
and true nature of suffering there is no final Liberation from it. It is
going to be with us for the whole of the path whether we want it or not.

We all have to suffer and we none of us know when we will have to bear
what and for how long. Our situation can change so drastically and so
suddenly and some forms of suffering go on and on. When we contemplate
how this is true for every being there is everywhere we start to yearn
for what goes beyond samsara — a state of mind in which we can face any
situation however intense with equanimity. This is the highest spiritual
accomplishment, its called Enlightenment. We can keep aspiring for it
and for the conditions that will bring it about for ourselves and all
beings. Such an aspiration is not just wishful thinking. Such aspiration
is the path itself. The constant aspiration is the path.

Enlightenment itself is not conditioned but we are. We are so easily
distracted and discouraged from even aspiring to realise what lies
beyond all suffering. But the pain doesn't go away. Even if it goes
temporarily there is no guarantee that it won't come back until we are
Enlightened. That is when we realise the true nature of reality which is
our own being. It is a long path and we have to suffer a lot on the way.

If you can relate to your present suffering with some kind of sense of
it being your path, then the suffering itself becomes your practice.
Just being able to let go of negative thinking and struggling with the
pain and being more simple about it, that already means you are making
the suffering into the path. Gradually as you learn to not add to your
suffering by negative thinking, you will find the pain itself has a kind
of quality of awareness to it that can sometimes feel strangely ok...
and that it is the thinking of *“I cannot stand this”* that is the real
suffering — the struggle... the remembering how long it has gone on and
dreading how long it might last... this is thinking and adding something
heavy and stressful to the original sensation of pain. This can be
reduced by noticing it is not the pain itself but an added suffering. It
is possible to notice it is thinking and has no more status than any
other thought. Such thinking can be reduced tremendously by simply not
feeding it with the belief that it is necessary. Such thinking is not
necessary... it is just like any other thought that you let go of all
the time. It is possible to let it go.

That is a huge thing to learn. It is massive. But even to learn it a
tiny bit brings relief. So that is all I can suggest really. Pain such
as yours is a harsh teacher but in the end may be kind. The rest of us
are relatively heedless because we are not suffering that much right
now. You have a goad forcing you to search deeply and to long for
Enlightenment with a fierce intensity — if you can extend this to all
other beings who are suffering with you... and we all will be sooner or
later... then you are turning your suffering into your spiritual path.
It is not meaningless.

I don't know if this helps. I hope it does.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Four Noble Truths: The basic teaching of the Buddha:

1.  suffering,
2.  the causes of suffering,
3.  cessation of suffering,
4.  the path out of suffering

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Samsara
:   The endless wandering round in an endless succession of lives each
    characterised by suffering. It is existence as experienced by
    unenlightened beings, whether it??s the tread-mill of living from
    day to day, going nowhere except into old age and death, or the
    suffering of being trapped in delusion from one life to the next.

Discover the Heart of Buddhism: sign up for Lama Shenpen's Distance
Learning Course
<http://buddhismconnect.c.topica.com/maapI7vab8ZrBbriOFWeaeQC5S/>

If you value these regular email teachings and would like to make a
donation to help us keep this service going, then visit our website.
Buddhism Connect emails are sent out by the Shrimala Trust, a registered
charity (UK no. 1078783), supporting the activity of the Awakened Heart
Sangha. All subscriber information is kept confidential and never sold.

Make a Donation:
<http://buddhismconnect.c.topica.com/maapI7vab8ZrwbriOFWeaeQC5S/>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
