<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:Orignal version of a Klein Bottle Opener 3D printed
sculpture/utensil Parent:<span
class="wikiword">[SavedArticles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>(.<span
class="wikiword">[HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>)
<span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[SavedArticles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)
Categories:[Humour](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Humour) Tags: 3d
printing, utensils, klein bottles, manifolds Source:
<http://www.bathsheba.com/math/klein/klein_x1.html>

</div>

Page saved at: Fri, 20 Jul 2012 23:03:40 -0500

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://www.bathsheba.com:80/math/klein/kleinx1beer.jpg)

</div>

<div>

![](http://www.bathsheba.com:80/math/klein/kleinx1beer_th.jpg)

</div>

<div>

![](http://www.bathsheba.com:80/math/klein/kleinx1diag_th.jpg)

</div>

<div>

![](http://www.bathsheba.com:80/math/klein/kleins_many_th.jpg)

</div>

**The problem of beer**  That it is within a 'bottle', i.e. a
boundaryless compact 2-manifold homeomorphic to the
[sphere](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sphere).  Since beer bottles are
not (usually) pathological or
"[wild](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexander_horned_sphere)" spheres,
but [smooth manifolds](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smooth_manifold),
they separate 3-space into two non-communicating regions: *inside*,
containing beer, and *outside*, containing you.  This state must not
remain.

**A proposed solution**  Clearly the elegant course is to introduce a
non-orientable manifold, which has one side and does not divide
3-space.  When juxtaposed with the beer-bounding manifold described
above, it acts to disrupt the continuity thereof, canceling the outdated
paradigm of distinction between interior and exterior.  This enables the
desired interaction between beer and self.

**Implementation** The [Klein
Bottle](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Klein_bottle)
Opener^[1](#fn1_1)^<span id="fnr1_1"></span>' shown above is an
example.  It is palm-sized, durably constructed in stainless steel,
effective^[2](#fn1_2)^<span id="fnr1_2"></span>, and blissfully
ergonomic.

**Q E D**  You need one.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="footnote">

 

</div>

<span id="fn1_1"></span>^1^ This 3D-printed sculpture is tumble finished
with a heat-treated patina that brings out the bronze color of the
metal.  It is unsigned. [⇑](#fnr1_1)

<span id="fn1_2"></span>^2^ Yes, it really works! [⇑](#fnr1_2)

<span style="font-size:83%">A tip of the manifold to the [Acme Klein
Bottle](http://www.kleinbottle.com) company.  Add a [Klein
Stein](http://www.kleinbottle.com/drinking_mug_klein_bottle.htm) to
complete your nonorientable drinking experience!</span>

</div>
