<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary: Twenty children died in a school massacre on Dec. 14; 27
children were killed in the week after and no one noticed. Why? Tags:
Crime, Current Events, Death and Dying, Emotions, Psychology, Safety and
Prevention, Society Source:
<http://news.discovery.com/human/when-killing-children-doesnt-make-the-news-121226.html>
Parent: includeme:
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles)

</div>

Page saved at: Thu, 27 Dec 2012 22:55:34 -0600

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="round lrindent quote">

<div class="vspace">

</div>

On Children Whose Murders Don't Make The News:
==============================================

*Analysis by [Benjamin
Radford](http://news.discovery.com:80/contributors/benjamin-radford/)*\
Wed Dec 26, 2012 11:39 AM ET

Twelve days ago, America experienced one of the worst school shootings
in history. Twenty children and six adults were killed when Adam Lanza
burst into Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut and opened fire
with guns and rifles. The massacre shocked the world and caused the
country to ask how and why it happened.

The children of Sandy Hook are the highest-profile murder victims, but
they are not the only ones. According to figures released by UNICEF,
over the past decade more than 20,000 American children have been killed
in their own homes by family members.

America has the [worst record of child
abuse](http://news.discovery.com/human/us-worst-child-abuse-111023.html)
in the industrialized world, and more children die each week in America
than died in the school shooting on that day: Twenty children died on
Dec. 14, and it, quite rightly, outraged the world. Twenty-seven
children died the week before and the week after and nobody noticed.
Americans and the news media pay little attention to children murdered
every day across the country.

A small sample of children killed (or nearly killed) by parents making
news in the weeks before and after the Sandy Hook killings: Camilia
Terry of Cleveland was arrested for killing her three-year-old son
Emilliano; she claimed he’d been kidnapped but after his body was found
in a trash bag at a landfill, her story changed. Nicole Fitzgerald of
Baltimore stabbed her two-year-old son to death. Jennifer Lynn Emerick
of Huron, Michigan, suffocated her 23-month-old son. Jessica Elizabeth
Rhodes of Pennsylvania beat and shook her 14-month-old son so badly it
nearly killed him; he suffered brain bleeding and swelling, and eye
hemorrhaging.

Kristine Davis of New Hampshire poisoned her seven-month-old son.
Veronica Herrera of Boise, Idaho, killed her 2-year-old daughter and
burned her body in a barrel in the back yard of her home. Lashay
Patterson and her live-in boyfriend, both of Philadelphia, beat and
burned her five-year-old son to death.

It’s a national tragedy when one man with a gun kills 20 children at
once, but when parents do it one at a time every single day in this
country it barely makes the local news or raises an eyebrow. Why?

Part of the reason is that the Connecticut shooting perfectly fits the
typical “Stranger Danger” social narrative: [an evil
male](http://news.discovery.com/human/brief-why-are-mass-shooters-almost-always-men-121217.html)
preying on other people’s innocent children. It’s the stereotypical
murder, something we can all recognize and fear. But when it’s [a
mother](http://news.discovery.com/human/mother-killer-murder-child.html)
(or, less often, a father) killing her own child, it’s often ignored
because, after all, as horrific and tragic as the crime is, at least
it’s her own child, not someone else’s.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

The News Media Bias
-------------------

It’s also a largely invisible crime because of how the news media
reports the killings. The murder of children by parents is so common
that stories about it merit only a few seconds on the nightly local
news, or a paragraph or two in a newspaper or website. Unless it’s a
sensational case (such as Susan Smith who drowned her two boys after
claiming a Black man abducted them, triggering a national search in
1995), these killings never make the national news and stay off the
social radar as a serious issue.

When we briefly hear about a local parent who killed their child, it’s
easy to think of it as a rare, horrific aberration instead of something
that happens every single day in towns and cities across the country. If
each of these child murders made the national news -- an average of
three or four every day -- the public would react as they have in the
wake of the recent massacre.

The Sandy Hook victims were also brought into [vivid, emotional
detail](http://edition.cnn.com/interactive/2012/12/us/sandy-hook-victims/index.html)
by the press. We know their names, their faces, their interests, their
favorite music, and what they wanted to be when they grew up. Except in
rare, high-profile cases -- such as Caylee Anthony, for example --
children killed by their parents are quasi-anonymous; usually the only
details offered are their names, ages and how their bodies were found.
They are presented in news stories as grim statistics, not real
children, so why would the public care about them?

Another reason the murders are treated different is that public
tragedies like the Sandy Hook massacre can be related to, or used to
support, specific social agendas, including addressing gun control,
mental health issues and even bullying. But when the issue is parents
killing their children, the causes are much murkier and harder to
address.

Solutions may involve improving community service support for families,
drug treatment programs, and domestic violence intervention -- mundane
social services that aren’t as headline-grabbing as gun bans.

The children killed every day in our communities are no more important
than those who died in Sandy Hook, but they are no less important,
either.

Copyright © 2012 Discovery Communications, LLC. The number-one
nonfiction media company.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
