<div id="wikitext">

In Memoriam, Aaron Swartz, November 8, 1986 – January 11, 2013, Requiescat in pace.
===================================================================================

A brief message from Anonymous.

<span id="excerpt"></span> **Whether or not the government contributed
to his suicide, the government's prosecution of Swartz was a grotesque
miscarriage of justice, a distorted and perverse shadow of the justice
that Aaron died fighting for — freeing the publicly-funded scientific
literature from a publishing system that makes it inaccessible to most
of those who paid for it — enabling the collective betterment of the
world through the facilitation of sharing — an ideal that we should all
support.** <span id="excerptend"></span>

Moreover, the situation Aaron found himself in highlights the injustice
of U.S. computer crime laws, particularly their punishment regimes, and
the highly-questionable justice of pre-trial bargaining. Aaron's act was
undoubtedly political activism; it had tragic consequences.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Our wishes
----------

-   We call for this tragedy to be a basis for reform of computer crime
    laws, and the overzealous prosecutors who use them.
-   We call for this tragedy to be a basis for reform of copyright and
    intellectual property law, returning it to the proper principles of
    common good to the many, rather than private gain to the few.
-   We call for this tragedy to be a basis for greater recognition of
    the oppression and injustices heaped daily by certain persons and
    institutions of authority upon anyone who dares to stand up and be
    counted for their beliefs, and for greater solidarity and mutual aid
    in response.
-   We call for this tragedy to be a basis for a renewed and unwavering
    commitment to a free and unfettered internet, spared from censorship
    with equality of access and franchise for all.

For in the end, we will not be judged according to what we give, but
according to what we keep to ourselves.

Aaron, we will sorely miss your friendship, and your help in building a
better world. May you read in peace.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Who was Aaron Swartz? A hero in the SOPA/PIPA campaign, Reddit
cofounder, RSS, Demand Progress, Avaaz, etc...: <http://www.aaronsw.com>

Aaron Swartz's funeral is on Tuesday. Here are
[details:](http://rememberaaronsw.com/)

[Remove United States District Attorney Carmen Ortiz from office for
overreach in the case of \#Aaron
Swartz](https://petitions.whitehouse.gov/petition/remove-united-states-district-attorney-carmen-ortiz-office-overreach-case-aaron-swartz/RQNrG1Ck)

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Guerilla Open Access Manifesto
------------------------------

Information is power. But like all power, there are those who want to
keep it for themselves. The world's entire scientific and cultural
heritage, published over centuries in books and journals, is
increasingly being digitized and locked up by a handful of private
corporations. Want to read the papers featuring the most famous results
of the sciences? You'll need to send enormous amounts to publishers like
Reed Elsevier.

There are those struggling to change this. The Open Access Movement has
fought valiantly to ensure that scientists do not sign their copyrights
away but instead ensure their work is published on the Internet, under
terms that allow anyone to access it. But even under the best scenarios,
their work will only apply to things published in the future. Everything
up until now will have been lost.

That is too high a price to pay. Forcing academics to pay money to read
the work of their colleagues? Scanning entire libraries but only
allowing the folks at Google to read them? Providing scientific articles
to those at elite universities in the First World, but not to children
in the Global South? It's outrageous and unacceptable.

"I agree," many say, "but what can we do? The companies hold the
copyrights, they make enormous amounts of money by charging for access,
and it's perfectly legal — there's nothing we can do to stop them." But
there is something we can, something that's already being done: we can
fight back.

Those with access to these resources — students, librarians, scientists
— you have been given a privilege. You get to feed at this banquet of
knowledge while the rest of the world is locked out. But you need not —
indeed, morally, you cannot — keep this privilege for yourselves. You
have a duty to share it with the world. And you have: trading passwords
with colleagues, filling download requests for friends.

Meanwhile, those who have been locked out are not standing idly by. You
have been sneaking through holes and climbing over fences, liberating
the information locked up by the publishers and sharing them with your
friends.

But all of this action goes on in the dark, hidden underground. It's
called stealing or piracy, as if sharing a wealth of knowledge were the
moral equivalent of plundering a ship and murdering its crew. But
sharing isn't immoral — it's a moral imperative. Only those blinded by
greed would refuse to let a friend make a copy.

Large corporations, of course, are blinded by greed. The laws under
which they operate require it — their shareholders would revolt at
anything less. And the politicians they have bought off back them,
passing laws giving them the exclusive power to decide who can make
copies.

There is no justice in following unjust laws. It's time to come into the
light and, in the grand tradition of civil disobedience, declare our
opposition to this private theft of public culture.

We need to take information, wherever it is stored, make our copies and
share them with the world. We need to take stuff that's out of copyright
and add it to the archive. We need to buy secret databases and put them
on the Web. We need to download scientific journals and upload them to
file sharing networks. We need to fight for Guerilla Open Access.

With enough of us, around the world, we'll not just send a strong
message opposing the privatization of knowledge — we'll make it a thing
of the past. Will you join us?

Aaron Swartz

July 2008, Eremo, Italy

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

You were the best of us; may you yet bring out the best in us.

-Anonymous, Jan 13, 2013.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

(Postscript: We tender apologies to the administrators at MIT for this
temporary use of their websites. We understand that it is a time of
soul-searching for all those within this great institution as much —
perhaps for some involved even more so — than it is for the greater
internet community. We do not consign blame or responsibility upon MIT
for what has happened, but call for all those feel heavy-hearted in
their proximity to this awful loss to acknowledge instead the
responsibility they have — that we all have — to build and safeguard a
future that would make Aaron proud, and honour the ideals and dedication
that burnt so brightly within him by embodying them in thought and word
and action. [Original frontpage](http://cogen.mit.edu:80/index2.cfm)) ]]

[\#JusticeForAaronSwartz](https://twitter.com/search?q=#JusticeForAaronSwartz)\
[\#freemanning](https://twitter.com/search?q=#freemanning<)\
[\#OpFreeAssange](https://twitter.com/search?q=#freeassange)\
[\#Antisec](https://twitter.com/search?q=#antisec)

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="display: none;">

Summary: A memorial to Aaron Swartz that Anonymous hacked onto the MIT
web site Tags: Aaron Swartz, memorial, freedom Source:
<http://cogen.mit.edu/aaron.html> Parent: <span
class="wikiword">[SavedArticles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>(.<span
class="wikiword">[HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>)
includeme:[SavedArticles.HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles),
[Justice](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Justice),
[Humanism](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Humanism)

</div>

Page saved at: Sun, 13 Jan 2013 22:50:02 -0600

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
