<div id="wikitext">

Link: [Diagnosis of Borderline Personality Disorder Is Often Flawed:
Scientific
American](http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=the-truth-about-borderline)

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="round lrindent quote">

Diagnosis of Borderline Personality Disorder Is Often Flawed

True sufferers are often troubled—and yet time and treatment can often
improve their lives

By Scott O. Lilienfeld and Hal Arkowitz | January 4, 2012

This past June renowned clinical psychologist Marsha M. Linehan of the
University of Washington made a striking admission. Known for her
pioneering work on borderline personality disorder (BPD), a severe and
intractable psychiatric condition, 68-year-old Linehan announced that as
an adolescent, she had been hospitalized for BPD. Suicidal and
self-destructive, the teenage Linehan had slashed her limbs repeatedly
with knives and other sharp objects and banged her head violently
against the hospital walls. The hospital’s discharge summary in 1963
described her as “one of the most disturbed patients in the hospital.”
Yet despite a second hospitalization, Linehan eventually improved and
earned a Ph.D. from Chicago’s Loyola University in 1971.

Many psychologists and psychiatrists were taken aback by Linehan’s
courageous admission, which received high-profile coverage in the New
York Times. Part of their surprise almost surely stemmed from an
uncomfortable truth: people with BPD are often regarded as hopeless
individuals, destined to a life of emotional misery. They are also
frequently viewed as so disturbed that they cannot possibly achieve
success in everyday life. As a consequence, highly accomplished
individuals such as Linehan do not fit the stereotypical mold of a
former BPD sufferer. But as Linehan’s case suggests, much of the intense
pessimism and stigma surrounding this disorder are unjustified. Indeed,
few psychological disorders are more mischaracterized or misunderstood.

</div>

Tags: mental health, borderline, bpd, Linehan, sciam\
Posted: 2012-6-19 1:59

<div class="vspace">

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

</div>
