<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary: I recently described what remarkable bosses do. A number of
people emailed and asked, "That's a great list, but flip it around: What
things should I not do?" Glad you asked. As a leader what you don't do
can sometimes make as much or even more impact than what you do. Tags:
management Source:
<http://business.time.com/2012/05/22/5-things-remarkable-bosses-never-do/?iid=biz-article-editpicks>
Page saved at: Wed, 22 Aug 2012 22:52:44 -0500 Parent:<span
class="wikiword">[SavedArticles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>(.<span
class="wikiword">[HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>)
includeme:[SavedArticles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles)

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

5 Things Remarkable Bosses Never Do
===================================

What you don't do can sometimes make a bigger impact than what you do.By
[Jeff Haden](http://business.time.com/contributor/jeff-haden/) | May 22,
2012 |
[+](http://business.time.com/2012/05/22/5-things-remarkable-bosses-never-do/#comments)[Tweethttp](http://twitter.com/share)://timebusinessblog.files.wordpress.com/2012/05/happyboss.jpg?w=360&h=240&crop=1Alex
and Laila / Getty Images

I recently described [what remarkable bosses
do](http://www.inc.com/jeff-haden/the-5-qualities-of-remarkable-bosses.html?nav=pop).
A number of people emailed and asked, “That’s a great list, but flip it
around: What things should I *not* do?”

Glad you asked.

As a leader what you don’t do can sometimes make as much or even more
impact than what you do. Here are five things remarkable
bosses *never* do:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Say, “I’ve been meaning to apologize for a while…”
--------------------------------------------------

You should never need to apologize for not having apologized sooner.

When you mess up, ‘fess up. Right away. You certainly want employees to
immediately tell you when they make a mistake, so model the same
behavior.

If love means never having to say you’re sorry, leadership means always
having to say you’re sorry.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Deliver annual performance reviews.
-----------------------------------

Annual or semi-annual performance appraisals are largely a waste of
time.

Years ago my review was late so I mentioned it to my boss. He said,
“I’ll get to it… but you should know you won’t hear anything new. You’ve
already heard everything I will say, good or bad. If anything on your
review comes as a surprise to you I haven’t done my job.”

He was right. The best feedback isn’t scheduled. The [best
feedback](http://www.inc.com/jeff-haden/the-9-elements-of-highly-effective-employee-praise.html) happens
on the spot when it makes the most impact, either as praise and
encouragement or as training and suggestions for improvement. Waiting
for a scheduled review is the lazy way out.

Your job is to coach and mentor and develop–every day.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Hold formal meetings to solicit ideas.
--------------------------------------

Many companies hold brainstorming sessions to solicit ideas for
improvement, especially when times get tough.

Sounds great; after all you’re “engaging employees” and “valuing their
contributions,” right? But you don’t need a meeting to get input. When
employees know you listen they bring ideas to you.

And if you must ask, the better way to ask for ideas is to talk to
people individually and to be more specific. Say, “I wish we could find
a way to get orders through our system faster. What would you change if
you were me?”

Trust me: Employees picture themselves doing your job–and doing your job
better than you–all the time. They have ideas. Sometimes they have great
ideas. Be open, act on good ideas, explain why less than good ideas
aren’t feasible… and you’ll get all the input you can handle without a
formal meeting.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Create development plans.
-------------------------

Formal development plans are, like annual performance reviews, largely a
corporate construct. You should know what each of your employees hopes
to achieve: Skills and experience they want to gain, career paths they
hope to take, etc.

So talk about it–informally. Then assign projects that fit. Provide
training that fits. Create opportunities that fit.

Then give feedback on the spot. “Develop” is a verb. To develop requires
action. “Development” is a noun that sits in a file cabinet.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Call in favors.
---------------

I know lots of bosses who play the guilt game, like saying, “Mark, I was
really flexible with your schedule while your son was sick… now I really
need you to come through for me and work this weekend.”

Generosity should always be a one-way street. Be flexible when being
flexible is the right thing to do. Be accommodating when being
accommodating is the right thing to do.

Never lend money to friends unless you don’t care if you are repaid, and
never do “favors” for employees in anticipation of return.

Remarkable leaders only give. They never take.

*Jeff Haden learned much of what he knows about business and technology
as he worked his way up in the manufacturing industry. Everything else
he picks up from [ghostwriting books](http://www.blackbirdinc.com/) for
some of the smartest leaders he knows in
business. [@jeff\_haden](http://www.twitter.com/jeff_haden)*

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
