<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:Five things every manager must do to keep employees motivated
and the business growing. Don't settle for being a good boss; be a
phenomenal boss. Parent:<span
class="wikiword">[SavedArticles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>(.<span
class="wikiword">[HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>)
<span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[SavedArticles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles) Tags:
management Source:
<http://www.inc.com/jeff-haden/the-5-qualities-of-remarkable-bosses.html?nav=pop>

</div>

Page saved at: Wed, 22 Aug 2012 22:47:08 -0500

Mar 5, 2012

The 5 Qualities of Remarkable Bosses
====================================

Consistently do these five things and the results you want from your
employees--and your business--will follow.

In the eyes of his or her employees, a remarkable boss is a star.
Remember where you came from, and be gracious with your stardom.

Remarkable bosses aren??t great on paper. Great bosses are remarkable
based on their actions.

Results are everything??but not the results you might think.

Consistently do these five things and everything else follows. You and
your business benefit greatly.

More importantly, so do your employees.

1\. Develop every employee. Sure, you can put your primary focus on
reaching targets, achieving results, and accomplishing concrete
goals??but do that and you put your leadership cart before your
achievement horse.

Without great employees, no amount of focus on goals and targets will
ever pay off. Employees can only achieve what they are capable of
achieving, so it??s your job to help all your employees be more capable
so they??and your business??can achieve more.

It's your job to provide the training, mentoring, and opportunities your
employees need and deserve. When you do, you transform the relatively
boring process of reviewing results and tracking performance into
something a lot more meaningful for your employees: Progress,
improvement, and personal achievement.

So don??t worry about reaching performance goals. Spend the bulk of your
time developing the skills of your employees and achieving goals will be
a natural outcome.

Plus it??s a lot more fun.

2\. Deal with problems immediately. Nothing kills team morale more
quickly than problems that don't get addressed. Interpersonal squabbles,
performance issues, feuds between departments... all negatively impact
employee motivation and enthusiasm.

And they're distracting, because small problems never go away. Small
problems always fester and grow into bigger problems. Plus, when you
ignore a problem your employees immediately lose respect for you, and
without respect, you can't lead.

Never hope a problem will magically go away, or that someone else will
deal with it. Deal with every issue head-on, no matter how small.

3\. Rescue your worst employee. Almost every business has at least one
employee who has fallen out of grace: Publicly failed to complete a
task, lost his cool in a meeting, or just can??t seem to keep up. Over
time that employee comes to be seen by his peers??and by you??as a weak
link.

While that employee may desperately want to ??rehabilitate?? himself,
it's almost impossible. The weight of team disapproval is too heavy for
one person to move.

But it??s not too heavy for you.

Before you remove your weak link from the chain, put your full effort
into trying to rescue that person instead. Say, "John, I know you've
been struggling but I also know you're trying. Let's find ways together
that can get you where you need to be." Express confidence. Be
reassuring. Most of all, tell him you'll be there every step of the way.

Don't relax your standards. Just step up the mentoring and coaching you
provide.

If that seems like too much work for too little potential outcome, think
of it this way. Your remarkable employees don??t need a lot of your
time; they??re remarkable because they already have these qualities. If
you??re lucky, you can get a few percentage points of extra performance
from them. But a struggling employee has tons of upside; rescue him and
you make a tremendous difference.

Granted, sometimes it won't work out. When it doesn't, don't worry about
it. The effort is its own reward.

And occasionally an employee will succeed??and you will have made a
tremendous difference in a person's professional and personal life.

Can??t beat that.

4\. Serve others, not yourself. You can get away with being selfish or
self-serving once or twice... but that's it.

Never say or do anything that in any way puts you in the spotlight,
however briefly. Never congratulate employees and digress for a few
moments to discuss what you did.

If it should go without saying, don't say it. Your glory should always
be reflected, never direct. Recommended Videos Leader in Motion: How
Choreographer Bill T. Jones Collaborates How a Disaster on Everest
Inspired an Entrepreneur Meet the Husband-Wife Team Behind Babysitter
Site Sittercity

When employees excel, you and your business excel. When your team
succeeds, you and your business succeed. When you rescue a struggling
employee and they become remarkable, remember they should be
congratulated, not you.

You were just doing your job the way a remarkable boss should.

When you consistently act as if you are less important than your
employees??and when you never ask employees to do something you don??t
do??everyone knows how important you really are.

5\. Always remember where you came from. See an autograph seeker blown
off by a famous athlete and you might think, ??If I was in a similar
position I would never do that.??

Oops. Actually, you do. To some of your employees, especially new
employees, you are at least slightly famous. You??re in charge. You??re
the boss.

That's why an employee who wants to talk about something that seems
inconsequential may just want to spend a few moments with you.

When that happens, you have a choice. You can blow the employee off...
or you can see the moment for its true importance: A chance to inspire,
reassure, motivate, and even give someone hope for greater things in
their life. The higher you rise the greater the impact you can make??and
the greater your responsibility to make that impact.

In the eyes of his or her employees, a remarkable boss is a star.

Remember where you came from, and be gracious with your stardom.

Jeff Haden learned much of what he knows about business and technology
as he worked his way up in the manufacturing industry. Everything else
he picks up from ghostwriting books for some of the smartest leaders he
knows in business. @jeff\_haden

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
