<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary: According to the Mayo Clinic, post-traumatic stress disorder
([PTSD](http://psychcentral.com/disorders/ptsd/)) is a mental health
condition that’s triggered by a terrifying event. Tags: adjustment
disorder,brain disease,brain disorder,civilian population,health science
center,memorial hermann,mental health condition,neurological center,paul
schulz,population study,post traumatic stress,post traumatic stress
disorder,psychological adjustment,ptsd patients,texas health
science,texas health science center,texas medical center,traumatic
stress disorder,university of texas health science center,victims of
violence Source:
<http://psychcentral.com/news/2012/07/11/is-ptsd-a-brain-disease/41437.html>
Parent:<span
class="wikiword">[SavedArticles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>(.<span
class="wikiword">[HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>)

</div>

Page saved at: Thu, 12 Jul 2012 00:43:35 -0500

<div class="vspace">

</div>

[Is PTSD a Brain Disease?](http://psychcentral.com/news/2012/07/11/is-ptsd-a-brain-disease/41437.html)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

By Rick Nauert <span class="wikiword">PhD</span> *Senior News Editor*\
 Reviewed by John M. Grohol, Psy.D. on July 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://g.psychcentral.com/news/u/2012/07/Is-PTSD-a-Brain-Disease.jpg)

</div>

According to the Mayo Clinic, post-traumatic stress disorder
([PTSD](http://psychcentral.com/disorders/ptsd/)) is a mental health
condition that’s triggered by a terrifying event.

However, as the clinical acceptance and awareness of the disorder
evolves, experts are now wondering if PTSD is a brain disorder that can
affect multiple parts of the body and cause lifelong illnesses.

Researchers at The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston
(<span class="wikiword">UTHealth</span>) are investigating this
possibility.

“In the last few years, we’ve made a great deal of headway in our
studies and understanding of PTSD. It has become apparent that PTSD
isn’t just a psychological adjustment disorder,” said Paul Schulz, M.D.,
lead investigator and associate professor of neurology at the <span
class="wikiword">UTHealth</span> Medical School.

“We and others have shown more strokes, heart attacks, alcohol use, drug
abuse, [depression](http://psychcentral.com/disorders/depression/) and
dementia associated with PTSD patients.”

Schulz, whose clinical experience includes 25 years of working with
soldiers suffering from PTSD at VA Medical Centers, see patients
referred to the neurological center associated with the Memorial
Hermann-Texas Medical Center.

“Memorial Hermann has the busiest trauma emergency room in the world,”
Schulz said. “We see people with PTSD who are victims of violence or
have experienced something traumatic such as a bad car accident or their
house burning down.

“You can heal the injury but the brain is still affected in some
people.”

He said that any discoveries they make from the civilian population
study could be directly relevant to military personnel.

“As far as we can tell, PTSD acquired through civilian trauma is the
same as military PTSD. But in the VA system, we didn’t have access to
military personnel at the time of the inciting event – they were
overseas.

“Here at <span class="wikiword">UTHealth</span> and Memorial Hermann, we
see people within hours of their trauma and sometimes within minutes,”
he said. “The problem with PTSD is that it’s lifelong. We could
potentially affect the quality of life for millions of people
worldwide.”

An initial part of the study involves trying to determine risk factors
for PTSD by enrolling 400 patients who have experienced trauma.

“From that group, we expect to identify about 80 people with PTSD and we
hope to be able to determine factors associated with their getting PTSD
versus the other 320 who didn’t get it,” he said.

In the second part of the study, researchers hope to use the risk
factors to identify 80 of 400 new trauma patients and treat them in
advance to see whether they can prevent PTSD.

This phase will involve use of brain scans at baseline and one year
after the traumatic event.

“There is a suggestion that some specific parts of the brain may shrink
as a person develops PTSD,” he said. “If that’s the case, there may be
treatment approaches based on the affected areas of the brain.”

According to the National Institutes of Health, PTSD is an
[anxiety](http://psychcentral.com/disorders/anxiety/) disorder and the
cause is unknown. It changes the body’s response to stress, affecting
hormones and chemicals that carry information between the nerves.

Experts say that PTSD symptoms generally include: reliving the event
acutely enough to affect daily life; avoidance, emotional numbness and
depression; and having an exaggerated response to things that startle
the person, as well as irritability and angry outbursts.

Researchers say that PTSD occurs in 20 to 25 percent of people who
experience a trauma, but symptoms are often delayed for months, which in
turn delays treatment.

“For a long time, we assumed that PTSD was an adjustment disorder in the
psychiatric realm that required anxiety
[medications](http://psychcentral.com/drugs/) and
[antidepressants](http://psychcentral.com/lib/2006/antidepressant-medications/),”
Schulz said.

“But we couldn’t understand why people got PTSD and why it was so
difficult to get rid of. Frankly, the medications don’t work very well
in people with PTSD.”

The “Holy Grail,” he said, is trying to find ways to prevent the
conversion of acute stress disorder into chronic PTSD.

“Once we can identify a group of people who are more likely to develop
it, we can offer intensive anti-anxiety treatment in a controlled study
to see whether it will prevent the development of PTSD,” Schulz said.

Original Source: [University of Texas Health Science Center at
Houston](http://psychcentral.com:80/www.uthouston.edu/)

**APA Reference**\
Nauert <span class="wikiword">PhD</span>, R. (2012). Is PTSD a Brain
Disease?. *Psych Central*. Retrieved on July 12, 2012, from
<http://psychcentral.com/news/2012/07/11/is-ptsd-a-brain-disease/41437.html>

Copyright © 1992-2012 Psych Central. All rights reserved.\
Site last updated: 11 Jul 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
