<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary: Anxiety is growing into a peculiarly American phenomenon. How
did we become the world's leading exporter of worrywarts? Tags: The
Atlantic, The Atlantic Magazine, <span
class="wikiword">[TheAtlantic](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.TheAtlantic?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.TheAtlantic?action=edit)</span>.com,
Atlantic, news, opinion, analysis, commentary, Health news and analysis
on The Atlantic Source:
<http://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2012/07/trickle-down-distress-how-americas-broken-meritocracy-drives-our-national-anxiety-epidemic/259383/>
Parent:<span
class="wikiword">[SavedArticles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>(.<span
class="wikiword">[HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>)
<span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[SavedArticles.HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)

</div>

Page saved at: Mon, 09 Jul 2012 12:00:18 -0500

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Trickle-Down Distress: How America's Broken Meritocracy Drives Our National Anxiety Epidemic
============================================================================================

By Maura Kelly

<div class="vspace">

</div>

     Jul 3 2012, 12:24 PM ET Comment

*Anxiety is growing into a peculiarly American phenomenon. How did we
become the world's leading exporter of worrywarts?*

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://cdn.theatlantic.com/static/mt/assets/food/worry-615.jpg)spaceodissey/Flickr

</div>

America is turning into a country of hand-wringers. Nearly one in five
of us -- 40 million American adults -- suffer from anxiety disorders,
the most common class of psychiatric ailment we have. By comparison, a
mere one in ten are [plagued with mood
disorders](http://wwwapps.nimh.nih.gov/health/publications/the-numbers-count-mental-disorders-in-america.shtml#Mood)
like depression, the second most-common class of psychiatric problems.
Panic attacks often besiege Daniel Smith, author of the new anxiety
memoir *Monkey Mind*, out July 3, while others suffer from generalized
anxiety disorder, persistent and excessive worrying about everyday
things; social anxiety disorder; and a host of other fretful conditions.

So we're more anxious than anything else -- and also more anxious than
*anyone* else, beating out all other nations in our race to the top of
the nerve-racked list. According to a recent World Health Organization
study, 31 percent of Americans are likely to suffer from an anxiety
problem at some point during their lifetimes -- compared to 25.3 percent
of those in Colombia, and 24.6 percent in New Zealand, the countries
that rank second and third. You'd think people in developing or unstable
states -- those preoccupied with concerns farther down on the Maslow
Scale -- would be more anxious than we are. Not so. "According to the
2002 World Mental Health Survey, people in developing-world countries
such as Nigeria are up to five times less likely to show clinically
significant anxiety levels than Americans, despite having more basic
life-necessities to worry
about,"Â [writes](http://www.slate.com/articles/arts/culturebox/2011/01/its_not_the_job_market.html)
Taylor Clark, author of *Nerve: Poise Under Pressure, Serenity Under
Stress, and the Brave New Science of Fear and Cool*. "What's more, when
these less-anxious developing-world citizens emigrate to the United
States, they tend to get just as anxious as Americans.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

"The United States has transformed into the planet's undisputed worry champion," Clark adds.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Things only seem to be getting worse, unfortunately. "Surveys show that
stress levels here have progressively increased over the past four
decades," says Paul J. Rosch, MD, Chairman of the Board of The American
Institute of Stress. New research indicates that anxiety will continue
to grow with modernity: Millennials and Generation Xers are more nervous
than their elders and less capable of handling the pressure in their
lives, much of which comes from worries related to money and work. The
screws are tightening for our kids, too: A [2011 study from
UCLA](http://www.heri.ucla.edu/pr-display.php?prQry=55) found that
first-year college students are more tense than ever before. The
pressure starts well before they graduate from high school, of course:
"American teens, and perhaps even pre-teens now, with Ivy
League-obsessed parents, experience sleep deprivation, lack of downtime,
and stress due to round-the-clock efforts to create impressive resumes
for college admissions," says Carrie Barron, M.D., a New York
psychiatrist and co-author of *The Creativity Cure: A Do-It Yourself
Prescription for Happiness*. "Too many hours slumping over screens and
study tasks leads to depression and anxiety."

For adults, jobs are the leading source of stress, says Rosch, who
points out that work-related anxiety has multiplied in recent years --
both for the unemployed and the employed. So many companies have
down-sized and so many industries have shrunk that employees who manage
to hold on to their jobs are expected to work longer hours; they have
more and more to do, and less time to do it to their satisfaction.

But it's not just the recession -- which is affecting countries around
the globe -- that's to blame for America's nervous temperament. Even if
the economy were in great shape -- as it was in 2004, when we [spent
\$2.1
billion](http://meps.ahrq.gov/mepsweb/data_files/publications/st163/stat163.pdf)
on anti-anxiety meds, almost double the amount we spent in 1997 -- we'd
still be chewing our nails. Here's why.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

**Reimagining American meritocracy**
------------------------------------

Despite the fact that most Americans believe our country is still The
Land of Opportunity, the greatest meritocracy in the world, the United
States is actually a terrible place for fortune-seekers. Chris Hayes,
author of the new book *Twilight of the Elites: America After
Meritocracy*, notes that when citizens of different countries are polled
about their perception of how easy it is to start off poor and work
their way up to wealth, "the U.S. is near or at the top in terms of
people who say 'yes.' And yet it is also near the bottom in terms of
actual social mobility."

In other words, as Hayes [argues in his
book](http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2012/06/the-cult-of-smartness-how-meritocracy-is-failing-america/258492/),
America isn't truly a meritocracy. Sure, the Civil Rights movement,
feminism, and equal opportunity laws have helped to remove many of the
barriers to success -- but people at the top tend to stay at the top,
from clique to clique, and generation after generation. "Those who climb
up the ladder will always find a way to pull it up after them, or to
selectively lower it down to allow their friends, allies, and kin to
scramble up," Hayes writes.

The powerful are liable to game systems (like school admissions
processes) designed to reward merit; they'll also go to great lengths to
maintain their bank accounts and their positions (consider, for
instance, just about everyone involved in creating the subprime mortgage
crisis). And despite the fact that we are all supposedly born with the
same legal rights, the elite are rarely punished for their misdeeds,
particularly compared to those lower down on the socioeconomic chain.
"The idea that we are a meritocracy is a vast oversimplification, a
self-serving and self-justifying one," says Hayes. "If you believe that
the model is that those who are smartest and hardest working end up with
the most power or the most lucrative jobs, then ... one conclusion to
draw from that [is] that the people currently occupying those positions
must be meritorious, which I think is an insidious myth."

<div class="vspace">

</div>

**The game is rigged from birth** ****
--------------------------------------

Sociologist Stephen <span class="wikiword">McNamee</span> makes some
similar points in his 2004 book *The Meritocracy Myth*, though he
emphasizes the circumstances we are born into as a determining factor in
where we'll end up. "The race to get ahead is a relay race in which we
inherit a starting point from our parents that in itself creates huge
inequalities of opportunity unrelated to the merit of discrete
individuals, including, and especially, unequal access to educational
opportunity," <span class="wikiword">McNamee</span> explains. Being born
to wealthy, powerful, or well-credentialed parents doesn't just help to
ensure an individual will have elite educational experiences; his
childhood and college experiences in turn ensure that he will make
important social connections and fit in culturally, multiplying his
chances for unusual success.

"The SAT was supposed to level the playing field so that the Ivies, for
example, were not just the provenance of the elite," Barron notes. But
the game has become rigged in favor of the wealthy, who can afford to
pay for years of test prep and college application tutoring for their
children. And yet, in a strict sense, meritocracy often fails for those
privileged kids, too. Barron points out that many work extremely hard,
and do all the "right" things, yet can't get into the college of their
choice because they're not unusual enough.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

**The meritocratic pressure-cooker** ****
-----------------------------------------

The idea that we can accomplish anything ** we put our minds to is so
pervasive that we often have a *lot* on our minds. We feel pressure to
take on more responsibilities and to make the "right" choices -- and we
beat ourselves up when we fail, as Princeton professor Anne-Marie
Slaughter, the former director of policy planning for the State
Department, [wrote in this month's *Atlantic* cover
story](http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2012/07/why-women-still-can-8217-t-have-it-all/9020/)
. "Millions of women feel that they are to blame if they cannot manage
to rise up the ladder as fast as men and also have a family and an
active home life (and be thin and beautiful to boot)," she wrote. And
unsurprisingly, perhaps, women suffer from a number of anxiety
disorders -- including generalized anxiety and panic attacks -- at a
rate twice as high as that for men.

But men feel the heat, too. As <span class="wikiword">McNamee</span>
puts it: "A reasonable argument could be made that the race to get ahead
in America is particularly stressful. If Americans believe that
individuals 'get what they deserve' based on their merit (innate
abilities, having the right attitude, working hard, playing by the
rules), then distain for the unsuccessful is seen as warranted."
Comedian D.L. Hughley makes a similar point in his forthcoming book, *I
Want You to Shut the F\#ck Up: How The Audacity of Dopes is Ruining
America*: "There's this American idea that we're a meritocracy, that
people reach the top through the virtue of hard work and perseverance.
But the flipside to that thinking is that the poor ... must be flawed,
lazy, stupid, or whatever other terrible adjective you would like to
use. They didn't work hard enough in some kind of way but had every
opportunity."

<div class="vspace">

</div>

**We all have too many choices**
--------------------------------

This cultural preoccupation with success as a reflection of worthiness
means that decision-making is particularly stressful for us. "Anything
about a decision that ... [is] less than perfect is a rebuke to the
decision maker," says Barry Schwartz, author of [*The Paradox of Choice:
Why More is
Less*](http://www.amazon.com/Paradox-Choice-Why-more-less/dp/0060005688).
Westerners seem particularly sensitive to decision-related regret, as
Schwartz notes. He describes a study that he co-authored, currently
being reviewed for publication, that used questionnaires to gauge how
subjects from the U.S., Europe, and China thought about decision-making.
The Chinese "have much less of their core selves on the line with each
decision they make," Schwartz says. "For Chinese (and other Asians),
sense of self and self-worth are not tied up so much with notions of
individual autonomy and choice. So a bad pair of jeans is just a bad
pair of jeans. In the U.S., it's a bad pair of jeans AND a statement
about you. Think how much weightier your decisions are if every one you
make tells the world something about who you are."

Our decision-making anxiety is exacerbated by our tendency to imbue all
sorts of decisions with vital importance. [For a recent
study](http://pss.sagepub.com/content/21/3/391), Stanford psychology
professor Hazel Markus and her colleagues asked Indian and American
participants to report how many choices they'd made while doing a series
of small tasks. "Though everybody made the same series of decisions" --
choosing a desk to sit at, choosing a pad to use, choosing whether or
not to eat free candy, and so on -- "Americans thought that they'd made
twice as many choices as the Indians, 20 compared to 10," Markus says.

Having to make too many decisions on a regular basis can stress us out,
as can the wild abundance of options we have to choose from. "Too much
choice can paralyze people and make them anxious," says Markus. "It used
to be good enough to send your kid to preschool or to college. Now you
have to choose the perfect one -- and then the perfect teacher and
extra-curriculars -- or you are a failure as a chooser, as a mother, as
an American."

Technology has multiplied the possibilities, for consumers and
socializers. "Online, you can look at literally every option, from every
retailer in the world [whereas] a generation ago, you'd go to the one or
two department stores in town," says Schwartz. "Instant portable
communication encourages people to keep their options open until the
last minute, so that they don't miss out on something better. A
generation ago, people actually made plans."

<div class="vspace">

</div>

**But we don't all have the *same* choices**
--------------------------------------------

[Another study](http://pss.sagepub.com/content/22/6/795.long) that
Markus conducted found that the more choices we have, the less
empathetic we become, and the less supportive of public policies aimed
at benefitting society. That points to another problem related to
choice: We don't all have the same options, but many at the top tend to
assume we do, despite how much the conditions that we are born into
delimit and affect all kinds of subsequent decisions -- like whether or
not we'll go to college, what kind of school we'll go to, and what type
of work we'll do. "Not everyone has the same choice set or the
opportunity to choose among good alternatives," as Markus puts it.

"Good choice is not evenly distributed throughout society, so beating
people up for [making] bad choice[s] is unfair," says Markus. And yet,
because we believe we live in a meritocracy, we often do just that --
and beat ourselves up for it, too.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

**The Obama example, and genetics**
-----------------------------------

When arguing that anyone can overcome a difficult youth, meritocracy
cheerleaders like to point to Barack Obama -- a half-black man raised by
a nomadic mother after his father left the two of them. But while
Obama's father may have been absent, he was also a charismatic academic
who received a master's in economics from Harvard and managed -- along
with his second wife, an anthropologist who received her Ph.D. from the
University of Hawaii -- to pass some excellent genes to the current
president. Like the ones that helped form his exceptional brain: [An
April 2012 report out of
UCLA](http://newsroom.ucla.edu/portal/ucla/international-team-uncovers-new-231989.aspx)
provides further evidence that DNA determines intelligence, to a large
extent. Genetic inheritance also
[dictates](http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702303552104577436333754014866.html),
to a significant degree, how ambitious and optimistic a person is, other
traits important for success. Obama's good looks represent yet another
[powerful
advantage](http://articles.businessinsider.com/2011-11-09/strategy/30376896_1_workplace-attractive-counterparts-job-interviews).
And while he may not have had a conventional family life, his mother was
a strong positive force in his life, as were her parents. ("His maternal
white grandparents, who had a great deal of influence in his life and
also raised him for periods growing up, were solidly middle class,"
<span class="wikiword">McNamee</span> notes.)

All this isn't to say that many true underdogs haven't managed to
achieve exceptional things. "Some individuals do overcome adversity and
beat the odds," <span class="wikiword">McNamee</span> acknowledges. But
<span class="wikiword">McNamee</span> points out that that wild success
stories often involve a substantial amount of luck, as much as merit.
Moreover, he says, "exceptions do not prove the rule. Individuals win
the lottery but that does not change the fact that the odds of doing so
are very remote."

<div class="vspace">

</div>

**What the recession demonstrates about luck**
----------------------------------------------

When using meritocracy calculators to assess achievement, we often
overlook or dismiss how much luck can affect lives. If any good has come
of the current economic crisis, it's how much harder doing that has
become. "Merit hard liners downplay the effects of luck," says <span
class="wikiword">McNamee</span>. "But the imperfections and ultimate
uncertainty of both the stock market on Wall Street and the labor market
on Main Street add an undeniable element of luck into the mix." And
while the U.S. government does have a history of passing laws aimed at
equalizing opportunity and eliminating discrimination, it has
simultaneously encouraged great economic disparities. "Major structural
changes in the U.S. economy such as de-industrialization, automation,
and globalization have displaced workers quite independent of the merit
of individuals," says <span class="wikiword">McNamee</span>. "The
historical decline in self-employment and the concomitant rise and
dominance of large oligarchic corporations (including chains and
franchises) have created barriers of entry for starting and sustaining
small businesses and sharply reduced the entrepreneurial path to
mobility."

Those at the top sometimes fail to understand how much their wealth and
power are a function of their environment. "Often those who are
privileged," writes <span class="wikiword">McNamee</span>, "at least
compared to the very poor, do not recognize or acknowledge these
advantages and often mistakenly attribute their 'success' to individual
merit alone -- i.e. being born on third base having thought you hit a
triple."

<div class="vspace">

</div>

**Dealing with anxiety in a meritocracy**
-----------------------------------------

But getting back, now, to the question of anxiety: Should we be thinking
about ways to make America more of meritocracy in the hopes of quelling
our stress? Says <span class="wikiword">McNamee</span>: "A pure
meritocracy is not possible and may not even be desirable." (Just ask
[Harrison Bergeron](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harrison_Bergeron).)
Far more important, he argues, is debunking the *myth* of meritocracy,
harmful "because it provides an incomplete explanation for success and
failure, often mistakenly exalting the rich and condemning the poor."

Indeed. As Alain de Botton noted in his engaging book *Status Anxiety*,
there's a much darker side to the meritocracy story. "If the successful
merited their success, it necessarily followed that the failures had to
merit their failure," he writes. "Low status came to seem not merely
regrettable but also deserved. ... To the injury of poverty, a
meritocratic system now added the insult of shame."

That, and the pain of anxiety.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

     Copyright Â© 2012 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved.  

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
