<div id="wikitext">

Link: [A novel method for the removal of ear
cerumen](http://www.cmaj.ca/content/173/12/1496.full)

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="outdent">

David A. Keegan, Departments of Family Medicine and Paediatrics

</div>

<div class="outdent">

Susan L. Bannister, Department of Pediatrics

</div>

<div class="outdent">

Schulich School of Medicine & Dentistry, University of Western Ontario,
London, Ont.

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="round lrindent quote">

We describe the off-label use of a recreational device (the Super Soaker
Max-D 5000) in the alleviation of a socially emergent ear condition.

A 45-year-old male complained of a profound reduction in his left ear
acuity while staying at an island cottage in rural Ontario. His hearing
loss was reducing his ability to hear his newborn son cry in the middle
of the night, requiring his wife to carry out all late-night child care.
As a result, correction of the problem was considered urgent.

The patient had been swimming multiple times a day for 6 days. He had
had several ear infections as a child but was otherwise well. He
admitted having used a Q-tip in his ear "once or twice" recently in the
affected ear.

An otoscope being available, examination of the external ears was
conducted. The nature of his problem was revealed as bilaterally
impacted cement-like ear cerumen.

Neither a formal ear syringe, nor a syringe of any kind was available on
the island. The day was very hot, and no one was particularly in the
mood to boat to Honey Harbour and then drive 45 minutes to Midland, just
on account of ear wax. One of the owners of the property was consulted
in his capacity as a professional engineer and the owner of a superbly
stocked tool shed (rivalling a mid-sized Canadian Tire). He was not able
to offer any substitute contraption of his own but suggested we approach
his 4-year-old grandson to see if we could use his pressured water
cannon.

</div>

Posted: 2012-2-24 11:27

</div>
