<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary: Scientists are a famously anonymous lot, but few can match in
the depths of her perverse and unmerited obscurity the 20th-century
mathematical genius Amalie Noether. Parent:<span
class="wikiword">[SavedArticles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>(.<span
class="wikiword">[HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)</span>)
<span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[SavedArticles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=SavedArticles.HomePage?action=print)
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles) Tags:
mathematicians, emmy noether, nyt, saved page Source:
<http://www.nytimes.com/2012/03/27/science/emmy-noether-the-most-significant-mathematician-youve-never-heard-of.html?_r=1&ref=general&src=me&pagewanted=all>

</div>

By [NATALIE
ANGIER](http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/a/natalie_angier/index.html?inline=nyt-per)

Published: March 26, 2012

**GROUNDBREAKING** Emmy Noether’s theorem united two pillars of physics:
symmetry in nature and the universal laws of conservation.

Albert Einstein called her the most “significant” and “creative” female
mathematician of all time, and others of her contemporaries were
inclined to drop the modification by sex. She invented a theorem that
united with magisterial concision two conceptual pillars of physics:
symmetry in nature and the universal laws of conservation. Some consider
Noether’s theorem, as it is now called, as important as Einstein’s
theory of relativity; it undergirds much of today’s vanguard research in
physics, including the hunt for the almighty [Higgs
boson](http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/h/higgs_boson/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier).
Yet Noether herself remains utterly unknown, not only to the general
public, but to many members of the scientific community as well.

When Dave Goldberg, a physicist at Drexel University who has written
about her work, recently took a little “Noether poll” of several dozen
colleagues, students and online followers, he was taken aback by the
results. “Surprisingly few could say exactly who she was or why she was
important,” he said. “A few others knew her name but couldn’t recall
what she’d done, and the majority had never heard of her.”

Noether (pronounced NER-ter) was born in Erlangen, Germany, 130 years
ago this month. So it’s a fine time to counter the chronic neglect and
celebrate the life and work of a brilliant theorist whose unshakable
number love and irrationally robust sense of humor helped her overcome
severe handicaps — first, being female in Germany at a time when most
German universities didn’t accept female students or hire female
professors, and then being a Jewish pacifist in the midst of the Nazis’
rise to power.

Through it all, Noether was a highly prolific mathematician, publishing
groundbreaking papers, sometimes under a man’s name, in rarefied fields
of abstract algebra and ring theory. And when she applied her equations
to the universe around her, she discovered some of its basic rules, like
how time and energy are related, and why it is, as the physicist Lee
Smolin of the Perimeter Institute put it, “that riding a bicycle is
safe.”

Ransom Stephens, a physicist and novelist who has lectured widely on
Noether, said, “You can make a strong case that her theorem is the
backbone on which all of modern physics is built.”

Noether came from a mathematical family. Her father was a distinguished
math professor at the universities of Heidelberg and Erlangen, and her
brother Fritz won some renown as an applied mathematician. Emmy, as she
was known throughout her life, started out studying English, French and
piano — subjects more socially acceptable for a girl — but her interests
soon turned to math. Barred from matriculating formally at the
University of Erlangen, Emmy simply audited all the courses, and she
ended up doing so well on her final exams that she was granted the
equivalent of a bachelor’s degree.

She went on to graduate school at the University of Göttingen before
returning to the University of Erlangen, where she earned her doctorate
summa cum laude. She met many of the leading mathematicians of the day,
including David Hilbert and Felix Klein, who did for the bottle what
August Ferdinand Möbius had done for the strip. Noether’s brilliance was
obvious to all who worked with her, and her male mentors repeatedly took
up her cause, seeking to find her a teaching position — better still,
one that paid.

“I do not see that the sex of the candidate is an argument against her,”
Hilbert said indignantly to the administration at Göttingen, where he
sought to have Noether appointed as the equivalent of an associate
professor. “After all, we are a university, not a bathhouse.” Hilbert
failed to make his case, so instead brought her on staff as a more or
less permanent “guest lecturer”; and Noether, fittingly enough, later
took up swimming at a men-only pool.

At Göttingen, she pursued her passion for mathematical invariance, the
study of numbers that can be manipulated in various ways and still
remain constant. In the relationship between a star and its planet, for
example, the shape and radius of the planetary orbit may change, but the
gravitational attraction conjoining one to the other remains the same —
and there’s your invariance.

In 1915 Einstein published his general theory of relativity. The
Göttingen math department fell “head over ear” with it, in the words of
one observer, and Noether began applying her invariance work to some of
the complexities of the theory. That exercise eventually inspired her to
formulate what is now called Noether’s theorem, an expression of the
deep tie between the underlying geometry of the universe and the
behavior of the mass and energy that call the universe home.

What the revolutionary theorem says, in cartoon essence, is the
following: Wherever you find some sort of symmetry in nature, some
predictability or homogeneity of parts, you’ll find lurking in the
background a corresponding conservation — of momentum, electric charge,
energy or the like. If a bicycle wheel is radially symmetric, if you can
spin it on its axis and it still looks the same in all directions, well,
then, that symmetric translation must yield a corresponding
conservation. By applying the principles and calculations embodied in
Noether’s theorem, you’ll see that it is angular momentum, the Newtonian
impulse that keeps bicyclists upright and on the move.

Some of the relationships to pop out of the theorem are startling, the
most profound one linking time and energy. Noether’s theorem shows that
a symmetry of time — like the fact that whether you throw a ball in the
air tomorrow or make the same toss next week will have no effect on the
ball’s trajectory — is directly related to the conservation of energy,
our old homily that energy can be neither created nor destroyed but
merely changes form.

The connections that Noether forged are “critical” to modern physics,
said Lisa Randall, a professor of theoretical particle physics and
cosmology at Harvard. “Energy, momentum and other quantities we take for
granted gain meaning and even greater value when we understand how these
quantities follow from symmetry in time and space.”

Dr. Randall, the author of the newly published “[Knocking on Heaven’s
Door](http://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/09/books/review/knocking-on-heavens-door-by-lisa-randall-book-review.html),”
recalled the moment in college when she happened to learn that the
author of Noether’s theorem was a she. “It was striking and even
exciting and inspirational,” Dr. Randall said, admitting, “I was
surprised by my reaction.”

For her part, Noether left little record of how she felt about the
difficulties she faced as a woman, or of her personal and emotional life
generally. She never married, and if she had love affairs she didn’t
trumpet them. After meeting the young Czech math star Olga Taussky in
1930, Noether told friends how happy she was that women were finally
gaining acceptance in the field, but she herself had so few female
students that her many devoted pupils were known around town as
Noether’s boys.

Noether lived for math and cared nothing for housework or possessions,
and if her long, unruly hair began falling from its pins as she talked
excitedly about math, she let it fall. She laughed often and in photos
is always smiling.

When a couple of students started showing up to class wearing Hitler’s
brownshirts, she laughed at that, too. But not for long. Noether was one
of the first Jewish scientists to be fired from her post and forced to
flee Germany. In 1933, with the help of Einstein, she was given a job at
Bryn Mawr College, where she said she felt deeply appreciated as she
never had been in Germany.

That didn’t last long, either. Only 18 months after her arrival in the
United States, at the age of 53, Noether was operated on for an ovarian
[cyst](http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/symptoms/cyst/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier),
and died within days.

The Mighty Mathematician You’ve Never Heard Of

</div>
