<div id="wikitext">

<div>

![](http://psycnet.apa.org/images/default_co-branding.gif)

</div>

[Journal TOC](http://psycnet.apa.org/journals/psp/88/2/)
[Permissions](http://rms.apa.org/index.cfm?uid=2005-00652-011&docType=j)

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Masculine Girls and Feminine Boys: Genetic and Environmental Contributions to Atypical Gender Development in Early Childhood.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Knafo, Ariel; Iervolino, Alessandra C.; Plomin, Robert*

**Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, Vol 88(2), Feb 2005,
400-412.**

In this genetic study of atypical gender role development, parents of
5,799 twin pairs, ages 3 and 4, rated their twin children's masculinity
and femininity. Boys were selected as gender atypical if they were
highly feminine (top 5%, 10%, or 15%) relative to other boys, and girls
were selected if they were highly masculine relative to other girls.
Gender-atypical boys and girls were each divided into 2 groups: fully
gender atypical (e.g., feminine boys also low on masculinity) and
partially gender atypical (e.g., feminine boys who are not low on
masculinity). <span class="wikiword">DeFries</span>-Fulker (DF; J. C.
<span class="wikiword">DeFries</span> & D. W. Fulker, 1985, 1988)
extremes analysis yielded moderate group heritability and substantial
shared environment effects for atypical gender role behavior. However,
for fully gender-atypical girls, group heritability accounted for most
of the variance, and shared environment had no effect. The results are
discussed in light of past studies and potential implications for
atypical gender development.

(<span class="wikiword">PsycINFO</span> Database Record (c) 2012 APA,
all rights reserved)

<div class="vspace">

</div>

-   Â© 2013 American Psychological Association

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="display: none;">

Summary: Study showing differences in factors leading to cross-gender
presentation in twins Parent:Science(.<span
class="wikiword">[HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Science.HomePage?action=print)</span>)
<span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Science.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Science.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[Science](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Science.HomePage?action=print)
Categories:[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles) Tags:
gender, sex, masculinity, femininity, twins, children, psychology
Source:
<http://psycnet.apa.org/?fa=main.doiLanding&doi=10.1037/0022-3514.88.2.400>
Title: Masculine Girls and Feminine Boys: Genetic and Environmental
Contributions to Atypical Gender Development in Early Childhood.

</div>

Page saved at 2013-06-05T06:26:49

</div>
