<div id="wikitext">

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:National Geographic's Best Space Pictures of 2012
Parent:(Science.)<span
class="wikiword">[AstronomyGallery](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Science.AstronomyGallery?action=print)</span>
includeme:[AstronomyGallery](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Science.AstronomyGallery?action=print)
Source:<http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/12/pictures/121211-best-space-2012-endeavour-mars-rover-nasa-science/?source=email_inside&utm_source=NatGeocom&utm_medium=Email&utm_content=inside_20121215&utm_campaign=Content>
Categories:[Photos](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Photos),
[Galleries](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Galleries) Tags: natgeo,
space, photos, astronomy, 2012

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Star Fields
-----------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.best-astro-photographs-space-pictures-2012-clouds-lights-milky-way_59486_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Photograph courtesy Tun?? Tezel, APOY/Royal Observatory

This image of the Milky Way's vast star fields hanging over a valley of
human-made light was recognized in the 2012 Astronomy Photographer of
the Year competition run by the U.K.??s Royal Observatory Greenwich.

To get the shot, photographer Tun?? Tezel trekked to Uludag National
Park near his hometown of Bursa,
[Turkey](http://travel.nationalgeographic.com/travel/countries/turkey-guide/).
He intended to watch the moon and evening planets, then take in the
Perseids meteor shower.

"We live in a spiral arm of the Milky Way, so when we gaze through the
thickness of our galaxy, we see it as a band of dense star fields
encircling the sky," said [Marek
Kukula](http://www.rmg.co.uk/about/the-organization/staff-profiles/astronomers/marek-kukula/),
the Royal Observatory's public astronomer and a contest judge.

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/09/pictures/120925-best-space-2012-astronomy-photographer-milky-way-science/)

**Why We Love It**

"I like the way this view of the Milky Way also shows us a compelling
foreground landscape. It also hints at the astronomy problems caused by
light pollution."??*Chris Combs, news photo editor*

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Witch's Broom
-------------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.best-astro-photographs-space-pictures-2012-ngc-6960_59489_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Photograph courtesy Robert Franke, APOY/Royal Observatory

This image of a
[supernova](http://science.nationalgeographic.com/science/space/universe/supernovae-article/)
remnant called the Witch's Broom received high commendation in the Deep
Space category in the 2012 Astronomy Photographer of the Year
competition, whose results were announced in September.

Taken by American Robert Franke, the picture shows scattering debris
from a Milky Way star that exploded several thousand years ago. These
cosmic filaments are part of the Veil Nebula, one of the largest
supernova remnants in the sky. It lies some 1,400 light-years away in
the constellation Cygnus.

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/09/pictures/120925-best-space-2012-astronomy-photographer-milky-way-science/#/best-astro-photographs-space-pictures-2012-ngc-6960_59489_600x450.jpg)

**Why We Love It**

****

"It's hard to find deep-space images that give you a sense of shape or
structure. Perhaps this is why the '[Pillars of Creation'
image](http://solarsystem.nasa.gov/multimedia/display.cfm?IM_ID=13343)
was so successful."??*Chris Combs, news photo editor*

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Space Self-Portrait
-------------------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.gemini-program-space-photos-scanned-buzz-aldrin-self-portrait_47262_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Photograph courtesy Arizona State University/NASA

Astronaut Edwin "Buzz" Aldrin snaps a self-portrait while spacewalking
during [NASA's Gemini 12
mission](http://science.ksc.nasa.gov/history/gemini/gemini-xii/gemini-xii.html)
in November 1966. Part of a camera (foreground) and the antenna of an
unmanned Agena target vehicle??used during the Gemini program for
rendezvous and docking practice??are visible in the left corner of the
frame.

Released in January, the picture is among thousands of high-resolution
digital scans that are being created as part of the [Project Gemini
Online Digital Archive](http://tothemoon.ser.asu.edu/gallery/gemini).

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/01/pictures/120123-nasa-space-missions-project-gemini-moon-digital-science/)

**Why We Love It**

****

"Many pictures of suited astronauts don't show their faces. I like the
sense of humanity in this picture, even though most of his face is in
shadow."??*Chris Combs, news photo editor*

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Cloud Curls
-----------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.nasa-rocket-launch-strange-clouds-white_50493_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Photograph courtesy Chris Perry, NASA

Loops of wispy
[clouds](http://science.nationalgeographic.com/science/earth/earths-atmosphere/clouds-article/)
rise like smoke rings against a background of stars in March??the
products of a [NASA](http://www.nasa.gov/) rocket launch designed to
study the upper-level jet stream. (See [more cloud
pictures](http://science.nationalgeographic.com/science/photos/clouds/).)

The space agency launched five consecutive sounding rockets from its
[Wallops Flight
Facility](http://www.nasa.gov/centers/wallops/home/index.html) in
Virginia as part of the [Anomalous Transport Rocket Experiment, or
ATREX.](http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/sunearth/missions/atrex.html)
Once aloft, each suborbital rocket released a chemical tracer at
altitudes between 50 and 90 miles (80 and 145 kilometers)??near the edge
of space.

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/03/pictures/120327-nasa-rockets-clouds-wallops-jet-stream-edge-space-science/)

**Why We Love It**

****

"A photojournalism teacher once pointed out to me that the best photos
of an event can come before it's supposed to start or well after it's
ended. This is a perfect example!"??*Chris Combs, news photo editor*

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

"Smiley" Eclipse
----------------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.solar-eclipse-2012-annular-ring-of-fire-philippines_53563_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Photograph by Bullit Marquez, AP

A [solar
eclipse](http://science.nationalgeographic.com/science/space/solar-system/solar-eclipse-article/)
turns the disk of the sun into a wide orange grin over Gumaca in the
[Philippines](http://travel.nationalgeographic.com/travel/countries/philippines-guide/)
in May.

Although the sun is only minimally covered in this picture, the
so-called annular eclipse went on to create a "ring of fire" for
sky-watchers in parts of Asia and the U.S. West. (See more[annular solar
eclipse
pictures](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2010/01/photogalleries/100115-eclipse-ring-fire-annular-pictures/).)

An annular eclipse happens when the moon lines up between Earth and the
sun and when the dark moon's apparent diameter is smaller than the
visible disk of the sun, leaving a ring??or annulus??of fiery light
around the edges.

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/05/pictures/120521-solar-eclipse-2012-pictures-annular-science/)

**Why We Love It**

****

"While an astronomer might have been disappointed by these clouds, I
felt that they gave this photograph an interesting, brooding feeling. It
evokes the same sense of mystery that Earthlings must have felt for
thousands of years as the sun grew slowly dark during an eclipse. A more
synthetic or 'clean' image of an eclipse doesn't feel as powerful to me
as a view like this."??*Chris Combs, news photo editor*

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Helix Nebula
------------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.space179-helix-cats-eye-nebula_47258_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Image courtesy ESO

**The intricate structure of the Helix Nebula, seen in January, is
featured as one of National Geographic News editor's picks for the best
space pictures of 2012. ([See more nebula
pictures](http://science.nationalgeographic.com/science/photos/nebulae-gallery/).)**

The rust-colored remains of a star like our sun, the Helix puffed up as
it died and shed its shells of gas and dust into space.

In visible light, fine details in the Helix are largely obscured by
dust. But the infrared view??snapped by the??[European Southern
Observatory's](http://www.eso.org/public/) VISTA telescope??can pierce
this veil to see radiating filaments of cooler gas in the rings as well
as a faint halo of thinly spread gas that extends to at least four
light-years from the dead star's core.

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/01/pictures/120120-best-space-pictures-179-costa-concordia/)

**Why We Love It**

"This deep-space picture has an unusual sense of scale: The individual
bright spots placed throughout the image give it a 3-D feeling of depth,
while the fine detail hints at the huge size of this planetary
nebula."??****Chris Combs, news photo editor''

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Blooming Seas
-------------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.space179-phytoplankton-bloom_47270_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Image courtesy ESA

A phytoplankton bloom traces a figure eight in the South Atlantic Ocean,
about 373 miles (600 kilometers) east of the British-held Falkland
Islands in a [European Space
Agency](http://www.esa.int/export/esaCP/index.html) satellite picture
from January.

Phytoplankton are microscopic organisms that make up the base of the
marine food chain. In spring and summer, upwelling nutrients from deeper
waters can fuel massive plankton blooms at the surface.

Different types and quantities of phytoplankton appear as differently
colored blooms, as seen in the varying shades of blue and green above.

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/01/pictures/120120-best-space-pictures-179-costa-concordia/#/space179-phytoplankton-bloom_47270_600x450.jpg)

**Why We Love It**

"I like the way that this satellite image has a sense of movement to it;
most look so static."??*Chris Combs, news photo editor*

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Crater Fan
----------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.space180-mars-crater_47844_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Image courtesy U. Arizona/NASA

A fan-shaped deposit decorates the floor of a Martian impact crater in a
[NASA Mars Reconnaissance
Orbiter](http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/MRO/main/index.html) picture
released in January.

The ancient fan looks similar to modern deltas on Earth, which form when
water in a channel flows into a larger body of water, as with the Nile
Delta in Egypt. As the water spreads out, it moves slower and drops any
sediment it's carrying, creating the fanlike structure.

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/01/pictures/120127-best-space-pictures-180-sun-plasma-blue-marble-mars/#/space180-mars-crater_47844_600x450.jpg)

**Why We Love It**

"I could look at the rich detail of this image all day."*??Chris Combs,
news photo editor*

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Star Cradle
-----------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.space182-carina-nebula_48557_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Image courtesy ESO

A February picture from the [European Southern
Observatory](http://www.eso.org/public/)'s Very Large Telescope is the
most detailed infrared view yet of the Carina Nebula. This bustling
stellar nursery sits about 7,500 light-years from Earth and is home to
several of the brightest and most massive stars known.

Radiation from the hot, young stars inside causes the large nebula to
glow brightly in visible light. But the new infrared view can also
pierce the space cloud's veil of dust to see hundreds of thousands of
fainter stars that were previously invisible.

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/02/pictures/120210-best-space-pictures-mars-moon-sun-stars-182-science/)

**Why We Love It**

"I once watched an artist in Times Square use canned spray paint and a
deft hand to make the most fantastic planets and nebulae in a night sky.
This image of a real nebula is even more dramatic than his
painting!"*??Chris Combs, news photo editor*

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Southern Sky Show
-----------------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.space188-soyuz-orbit-northern-lights-earth-space_50367_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Photograph courtesy NASA

From their vantage point high above Earth in March, astronauts on the
[International Space
Station](http://science.nationalgeographic.com/science/space/space-exploration/international-space-station-article/)
were able to capture daybreak (left) and nighttime auroras in a single
frame.

Snapped over the Indian Ocean, the picture also shows a Russian Soyuz
spacecraft (center) and a Progress resupply ship docked at the station.

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/03/pictures/120322-best-space-pictures-188-auroras-mars-robot/)

**Why We Love It**

****

"I like the way that this photograph gives a sense of what it must be
like to look out the window of a space station every day. It doesn't shy
away from the hardware. The little lick of aurora on the right doesn't
hurt either!"??*Chris Combs, news photo editor*

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Triple Fantasy
--------------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.space189-sunset-on-super-earth_50587_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Illustration courtesy L. Cal??ada, ESO

Three
[stars](http://science.nationalgeographic.com/science/space/universe/stars-article.html)??including
the red dwarf Gliese 667 C (far left)??set over the "super Earth" Gliese
667 Cc in an artist's conception.

Such rocky worlds abound around red dwarfs (stars smaller and cooler
than our sun), according to March results from the HARPS (High Accuracy
Radial velocity Planet Searcher) telescope at the [European Southern
Observatory](http://www.eso.org/public/). Radial velocity is a
planet-hunting technique that looks for wobbles in a star's light, which
can indicate the gravitational tugs of orbiting worlds.

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/03/pictures/120328-best-space-pictures-189-ufo-galaxy-christmas-science/#/space189-sunset-on-super-earth_50587_600x450.jpg)

**Why We Love It**

"This illustration does a nice job of showing both the similarities and
the differences between this exoplanet and Earth."*??Chris Combs, news
photo editor*

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Frosty Mars
-----------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.space193-north-polar-dunes-mars_52135_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Image courtesy U. Arizona/NASA

It might look as if someone sculpted a pigeon in the
[Martian](http://science.nationalgeographic.com/science/space/solar-system/mars-article/)
sand. But this image from [NASA's Mars Reconnaissance
Orbiter](http://mars.jpl.nasa.gov/mro/), released in April, shows
naturally shaped dunes in the red planet's north polar region, which are
lined and speckled by defrosting winter ice.

White regions indicate where fine-grained frost still rims the polar
dunes. Dark blotches, meanwhile, are most likely made from sediment
kicked up by carbon dioxide "geysers" created as ice layers sublimate,
or turn directly from a solid to a gas.

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/04/pictures/120426-best-space-pictures-193-sun-auroras-sombrero#/space193-north-polar-dunes-mars_52135_600x450.jpg)

**Why We Love It**

****

"The grittiness of this image reminded me of dirty, melting snow here on
Earth. I try to find space images that bring it home, showing us
something familiar that we can relate to."??*Chris Combs, news photo
editor*

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Thor's Helmet
-------------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.space194-thors-helmet_52556_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Image courtesy SSRO/PROMPT/CTIO

Before he joins [the Avengers](http://marvel.com/avengers_movie/), Thor
may need to retrieve his helmet??which is floating in space 15,000
light-years away.

Also known as NGC 2359, Thor's Helmet is a nebula found in the
constellation Canis Major. As seen in this picture from May??taken by
the [Cerro Tololo Inter-American
Observatory](http://www.ctio.noao.edu/noao/) in Chile??the cosmic cloud
of dust and gas is being shaped like a winged helm by outpourings of
radiation from the massive stars inside.

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/05/pictures/120504-best-space-pictures-194-thor-avengers-moon-r2-nebula/)

**Why We Love It**

"This is a beautiful picture, with a rewarding complexity; as you keep
looking, more and more detail turns up. Astro-imagers, take note of the
[careful
colorization](http://www.noao.edu/image_gallery/html/im1106.html) that
went into this multispectrum image."??*Chris Combs, news photo editor*

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Arctic Aurora
-------------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.space201-aurora-mountains_55457_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Photograph by Max Edin, Your Shot

Earth's most famous light formation hangs over a landscape saturated by
the glow of a full moon in Longyearbyen,
[Norway](http://travel.nationalgeographic.com/travel/countries/norway-guide/),
in June.

The photographer, who recently submitted this image to National
Geographic's Your Shot, said it was the most beautiful northern lights
display he had ever witnessed. Referred to as the [aurora
borealis](http://science.nationalgeographic.com/science/space/universe/auroras-heavenly-lights/)
around the Arctic Circle, the light show also appears in southern polar
latitudes, where it's known as the aurora australis.

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/06/pictures/120625-best-space-pictures-201-china-aurora-spy-plane/)

**Why We Love It**

"We have the good fortune of being able to run many beautiful aurora
photographs each year. I like the delicate color of the moonlit
mountains in this one and the simplicity of the aurora itself."*??Chris
Combs, news photo editor*

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Farewell Voyage
---------------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.space214-shuttle-over-houston_59481_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Photograph by Sheri Locke, NASA

The last of five shuttles in the U.S. space shuttle
program,[Endeavour](http://www.nasa.gov/centers/kennedy/shuttleoperations/orbiters/endeavour-info.html)
was formally retired in September and made its final aerial journey,
bound for the [California Science Museum
(CSC)](http://www.californiasciencecenter.org/) in downtown Los Angeles.

Endeavour was the youngest of the shuttle fleet, having been built after
the 1986 explosion of the Challenger shuttle during liftoff.

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/09/pictures/120921-best-space-pictures-214-shuttle-sun-mars/)

**Why We Love It**

"What a view! There were many photographs of the space shuttles being
retired, but few were as eye-catching as this."??*Chris Combs, news
photo editor*

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Solar Fireworks
---------------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.space214-solar-filament_59482_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Image courtesy SDO/NASA

A type of solar explosion called a coronal mass ejection sent solar
radiation out from the sun at 900 miles per second, as seen in an image
released by NASA on September 17.

The sudden burst of radiation didn't collide with Earth, but it did hit
our planet's magnetic field, producing illuminated auroras in the sky in
some parts of the world.

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/09/pictures/120921-best-space-pictures-214-shuttle-sun-mars/#/space214-solar-filament_59482_600x450.jpg)

**Why We Love It**

"I keep a close eye on NASA's
[solar](http://sdo.gsfc.nasa.gov/)[missions](http://sohowww.nascom.nasa.gov/)
and the site [SpaceWeather.com](http://spaceweather.com/) because they
give me a few days' advance warning for aurora borealis. They publish
many images of the sun that are most useful to a trained eye, but this
one is very clear and easy to understand??and awe-inspiring."??*Chris
Combs, news photo editor*

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Rover Self-Portrait
-------------------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.space220-mars-rover_60937_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Image courtesy MSSS/Caltech/NASA

Ready for its closeup but all alone on
[Mars](http://science.nationalgeographic.com/science/space/solar-system/mars-article/),
[NASA](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/09/120913-curiosity-drive-mars-science-laboratory-nasa-space-science/NASA)'s
[rover Curiosity](http://mars.jpl.nasa.gov/msl/) created this
self-portrait on Halloween. The image was stitched together from 55
high-resolution shots snapped by the Mars Hand Lens Imager (MAHLI)
perched on the end of Curiosity's robotic arm.

The pictures were taken at "Rocknest," the location in Gale Crater where
the mission first scoop-sampled Martian soil. Four scoop scars remain
visible in the soil in front the rover, while the base of
three-mile-high (five-kilometer-high) Mount Sharp rises to the right of
Curiosity.

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/11/pictures/121105-best-space-pictures-220-mars-rover/)

**[Why](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/11/pictures/121105-best-space-pictures-220-mars-rover/)
We Love It**

"I could quibble with the decision to [omit the robotic
arm](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/121204-curiosity-mars-rover-portrait-science-space/)
from this multiple-exposure composite photograph, but this image does a
good job of putting us right there on Mars!"??*Chris Combs, news photo
editor*

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Nightly Swirl
-------------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.space221-star-trails_61087_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Photograph by Alex Cherney, TWAN

A long-exposure picture??posted to the night-sky photography community
[The World at Night (TWAN)](http://www.twanight.org/newTWAN/index.asp)
in November??captures the stars' nightly swirl while auroras set the
horizon aglow over Australia's Mornington Peninsula.

[Auroras](http://education.nationalgeographic.com/education/encyclopedia/aurora/?ar_a=1)
are born when the sun sends charged particles, known as solar wind,
speeding toward Earth's atmosphere, where they slam into oxygen and
nitrogen atoms in the ionosphere above the planet's magnetic North and
South Poles. The energy released by these collisions creates glowing
colors some 60 to 620 miles (97 to 1,000 kilometers) aloft.

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/11/pictures/121112-best-space-pictures-mars-auroras-nebula-stars-221/)

**Why We Love It**

"This is a beautifully simple star-trail photograph. I like the vivid
colors on the horizon and the understated foreground. Although it's a
good rule of thumb to incorporate a prominent foreground into a
night-sky picture like this, sometimes it's best to let the stars do the
talking!"??*Chris Combs, news photo editor*

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Ringed Beauty
-------------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.space224-saturn-rings_61802_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Image courtesy Caltech/SSI/NASA

A steeply inclined orbit gives [NASA's Cassini
spacecraft](http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/cassini/main/index.html) a
spectacular view of
[Saturn](http://science.nationalgeographic.com/science/space/solar-system/saturn-article/)'s
rings, composed of ice and rock.

Released in November, this image was taken at a distance of about 1.5
million miles (2.4 million kilometers) on August 19, 2012, with a
wide-angle camera.

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/11/pictures/121130-best-space-pictures-224-saturn-storm/#/space224-saturn-rings_61802_600x450.jpg)

**Why We Love It**

"The deep shadows and high contrast of this elegant picture remind me of
a silver gelatin black-and-white photograph. I cropped a [tiny
moon](http://photojournal.jpl.nasa.gov/catalog/PIA14636) off of the very
top of this image to keep it simple, and because it wasn't very easy to
see once the picture was sized down."*??Chris Combs, news photo editor*

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Stormy Saturn
-------------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.space224-saturn-storm_61803_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Image courtesy SSI/ISA/ESA/NASA

A vortex of storm clouds swirls around
[Saturn](http://science.nationalgeographic.com/science/space/solar-system/saturn-article/)'s
north pole in this November 27 image taken from about 250,000 miles
(about 400,000 kilometers) away by NASA's Cassini spacecraft.

Cassini's cameras have revealed a cyclone-like pattern at the pole
before but only in infrared wavelengths because the north pole was in
darkness during the planet's long winter. As Saturn slowly orbits the
sun, light has finally begun to reach the north pole.

[Full
story\>\>](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/11/pictures/121130-best-space-pictures-224-saturn-storm/)

**Why We Love It**

****

"This picture really gives you a sense of this storm's vast power. I
can't help but imagine what it would be like to experience this from the
ground. Sweet dreams!"*??Chris Combs, news photo editor*

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

[See Our Favorite Space Pictures of 2011](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2011/12/pictures/111201-best-space-pictures-year-2011-aurora-eclipse-meteor-sun/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Science.NatGeoBestSpacePicturesOf2012.space-shuttle-endeavour-final-mission-landed-over-earth-night_36139_600x450.jpg)

</div>

Photograph courtesy NASA

Published December 11, 2012

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
