<div id="wikitext">

Alcohol as a Gateway Drug: A Study of US 12th Graders
-----------------------------------------------------

<div class="round lrindent quote">

<div class="vspace">

</div>

        Tristan Kirby MPH1,
        Adam E. Barry PhD2,*

Article first published online: 19 JUN 2012

DOI: 10.1111/j.1746-1561.2012.00712.x

© 2012, American School Health Association

Volume 82, Issue 8, pages 371–379, August 2012

BACKGROUND: The Gateway Drug Theory suggests that licit drugs, such as
tobacco and alcohol, serve as a “gateway” toward the use of other,
illicit drugs. However, there remains some discrepancy regarding which
drug—alcohol, tobacco, or even marijuana—serves as the initial “gateway”
drug subsequently leading to the use of illicit drugs such as cocaine
and heroin. The purpose of this investigation was to determine which
drug (alcohol, tobacco, or marijuana) was the actual “gateway” drug
leading to additional substance use among a nationally representative
sample of high school seniors.

METHODS: This investigation conducted a secondary analysis of the 2008
Monitoring the Future 12th-grade data. Initiation into alcohol, tobacco,
and other drug use was analyzed using a Guttman scale. Coefficients of
reliability and scalability were calculated to evaluate scale fit.
Subsequent cross tabulations and chi-square test for independence were
conducted to better understand the relationship between the identified
gateway drug and other substances' use.

RESULTS: Results from the Guttman scale indicated that alcohol
represented the “gateway” drug, leading to the use of tobacco,
marijuana, and other illicit substances. Moreover, students who used
alcohol exhibited a significantly greater likelihood of using both licit
and illicit drugs.

CONCLUSION: The findings from this investigation support that alcohol
should receive primary attention in school-based substance abuse
prevention programming, as the use of other substances could be impacted
by delaying or preventing alcohol use. Therefore, it seems prudent for
school and public health officials to focus prevention efforts,
policies, and monies, on addressing adolescent alcohol use.

</div>

Posted: 2012-07-11

Full article:
<http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1746-1561.2012.00712.x/full>
<span style="font-size:83%">*(subscription required)*</span>

PDF:
<http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1746-1561.2012.00712.x/pdf>
<span style="font-size:83%">*(subscription required)*</span>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:a study of 12-graders to determine what things have influenced
them more in abusing hard drugs Source: [Alcohol as a Gateway Drug: A
Study of US 12th Graders - Kirby - 2012 - Journal of School Health -
Wiley Online
Library](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1746-1561.2012.00712.x/abstract)
Parent:Science(.<span
class="wikiword">[HomePage](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Science.HomePage?action=print)</span>)
<span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Science.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Science.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[Science](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Science.HomePage?action=print)
Categories:[Links](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Links),
[Science](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Science),
[Psychology](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Psychology) Tags: drugs,
alcohol, substance abuse, teens, study

</div>

Personal thoughts on this:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

1.  This is a good study in that it has always seemed apparent that
    heavy drug users have more and earlier access to alcohol typically.
2.  The concept of a "gateway" substance or activity actually seems
    rather bankrupt. The idea that there isn't some *other* underlying
    issue than merely the availability of alcohol (or marijuana before
    that) is disingenuous. This sort of idea that one can blame heavy
    drug use solely on either access to marijuana or alcohol is an easy
    way to entice people into policy changes on something that will make
    the feel good about *"Doing something (for the children)"* when in
    fact it just gets people off the hook for making substantive changes
    that could prevent this in people for whom it is a highly dangerous
    and damaging thing.

</div>
