<div id="wikitext">

<div class="vspace">

</div>

-   <http://pyxml.sourceforge.net/topics/xbel/>

The XML Bookmark Exchange Language (XBEL)

The XML Bookmark Exchange Language, or XBEL, is an Internet "bookmarks"
interchange format. It was designed by the Python XML Special Interest
Group on the group's mailing list.

The original intent was to create an interesting, fun project which was
both useful and would demonstrate the Python XML processing software
which was being developed at the time. Mark Hammond contributed the
original idea, and other members of the SIG chimed in to add support for
their favorite browser features. After debate which ranged far afield
from the original idea, compromises were reached which allow XBEL to be
a useful language for describing bookmark data for a range of browsers,
including the major browsers and a number of less widely used browsers.

Export Safari bookmarks to XBEL\
Fri, Apr 9 '04 at 10:22AM ?? from: Anonymous

For accessing my Safari Bookmarks while on the road, I have a little web
application running which makes use of the ever more popular XBEL
format. So [here's my little Perl
script](http://simulakron.de/sabel.html) to convert Safari's Bookmarks
into XBEL format. In addition, it offers to compile a description from
the pages' contents (time intensive).

This is a hack from my prior [Omniweb 2 XBEL Converter
script](http://simulakron.de/babybel.html). Current drawback is a
complete reversal of the order of the Bookmarks structure. I was too
lazy to care. Hope it is as useful to someone as it is to me. Use at
your own risk as usual.

robg adds: I have also mirrored the script on the macosxhints' download
site:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

-   <http://www.macosxhints.com/comment.php?sid=20040408054824208&pid=0&type=article>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
