<div id="wikitext">

<span id="excerpt"></span> A [bokeh](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bokeh)
is a blur, or the quality of a blur, in a photograph of the out-of-focus
elements of a picture. Most often seen with points of light that are out
of focus in a photograph, they can be manipulated and designed to add
appeal to the image. Here we set out to replicate the bokeh effect
directly in photoshop. <span id="excerptend"></span>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Bokeh Example
-------------

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.Bokeh-Tutorial-Example-thumb.jpg)
<span
style="font-size:83%">([fullsize](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.Bokeh-Tutorial-Example.jpg))</span>

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Making a bokeh effect in photoshop
----------------------------------

There are a few tutorials out there for making a bokeh effect in
photoshop. The one I started from is
[here](http://abduzeedo.com/awesome-digital-bokeh-effect-photoshop). It
wasn't entirely clear from the tutorial how to achieve all the desired
effects, however, so I thought I'd write a more detailed explanation of
how I did it.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Create a new document
---------------------

Create a new document, sized appropriately for your bokeh effect. Since
these are often used as backgrounds, select a size large enough to
accomodate your largest monitor. I selected 1600x1100 as my starting
point.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-create-new-document-thumb.png)

</div>

Fill the background with a dark grey colour. I chose \#262626 as per the
original tutorial. Black won't work well in this case.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-select-background-colour-thumb.png)

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-fill-background-layer-thumb.png)

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Create a brush to use as the bokeh
----------------------------------

I created a new document within which to create the particular shape for
my bokeh, which will be convert to a brush stroke.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-create-brush-document-thumb.png)

</div>

Using the Elipse tool, draw an elipse on the bokeh brush document layer.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-draw-bokeh-brush-shape-thumb.png)

</div>

Alter the layer blending properties, via Layer\>Layer Styles\>Blending
Options

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-layer-layerstyle-blendingproperties-thumb.png)

</div>

Set the fill opacity to 50%

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-brush-layeroptions-setfillopacity-thumb.png)

</div>

Set the stroke properties to Inside, 100% Opacity, 10px.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-brush-layeroptions-strokeproperties-thumb.png)

</div>

The resulting bokeh should look something like this:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-brush-layeroptions-results-thumb.png)

</div>

Convert the layer to smart objects.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-brush-converttosmartobjects-thumb.png)

</div>

Create a new brush stroke from the object:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-definebrush-thumb.png)

</div>

Give it a useful name. Select the brush tool, and select the brush you
just created.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-select-bokeh-brush-thumb.png)

</div>

In the brush tip shape section, set the spacing to 200%:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-brush-set-spacing-thumb.png)

</div>

In the shape dynamics section, set Size Jitter to 1000%, minimum
diameter to 50%, Angle Jitter to 0, Roundness Jitter to 0, don't set
Flip-X or Flip-Y.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-brush-shapedynamics-thumb.png)

</div>

In Scattering, set Scatter to Both Axes, 1000%. Set count to 4 or 5,
Count Jitter to 100%:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-brush-scattering-thumb.png)

</div>

In Other Dynamics, set Opacity to 50%, Flow to 50%:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-brush-otherdynamics-thumb.png)

</div>

Save and close the brush document.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Create the colour layer for the main document
---------------------------------------------

To create an interesting colour layer for the main document, create a
new layer on top of the background layer. I like to use gradients to
give something interesting.

Select the gradient tool. Create a gradient or select a preset.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-creating-gradient-thumb.png)

</div>

Apply the gradient to the layer. Mouse down and drag a rubber band in
the direction you want your gradient to go. Doing it at an angle creates
the most interest.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-applygradient-thumb.png)

</div>

Change the layer blending mode to Overlay:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-gradientlayer-blendingoptions-thumb.png)

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Create the bokeh
----------------

Create a layer group below the gradient overlay layer. Alter the
blending options for the group layer. Set the blend mode to Color Dodge.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-create-bokeh-group-layer-thumb.png)

</div>

Create a layer for the first set of bokeh. Select the brush tool, and
your bokeh brush. Set the foreground color to white and draw some bokeh!

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-draw-big-bokeh-thumb.png)

</div>

Apply a guassian blur to the layer, setting the radius to 10.

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-select-gaussianblur-thumb.png)

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-set-blur-radius-thumb.png)

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-result-of-blur-thumb.png)

</div>

Looks pretty good, neh?

Now, create some more layers and draw some more bokeh, at smaller radii:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div>

![](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=uploads.Technology.BokehEffect.bokehtut-3-layers-of-bokeh-thumb.png)

</div>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

Conclusion
----------

You can of course set any shape to be a bokeh when you create your bokeh
brush. Some common bokeh in photography include stars, hearts, polygons,
and so on. Experiment! Enjoy!

<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>
