<div id="wikitext">

<div>

<span
class="lfloat">[![](http://d.gr-assets.com/books/1348539062m/7183279.jpg)](http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7183279-metaprogramming-ruby)</span>

</div>

[Metaprogramming Ruby: Program Like the Ruby
Pros](http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7183279-metaprogramming-ruby)
by [Paolo
Perrotta](http://www.goodreads.com/author/show/4423992.Paolo_Perrotta)\
My rating: [5 of 5
stars](http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/569268658)

[Paolo
Perrotta](http://www.goodreads.com/author/show/4423992.Paolo_Perrotta)'s
[Metaprogramming Ruby: Program Like the Ruby
Pros](http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7183279.Metaprogramming_Ruby__Program_Like_the_Ruby_Pros)
is a *tour de force* on Ruby's Object Model. The book goes into
considerable depth on how it works, and presents many examples of
manipulating the object model to good use. The format of first section
of the book goes through a week of a pair of Ruby programmers as they
try to fix and refactor an existing application, and how they use
various metaprogramming "spells" (techniques, idioms, etc). The second
section is a set of essays talking directly to the reader, rather than
talking about people working on something. The third section is a set of
appendecies that encapsulate the various concepts discussed in the first
two sections.

One of the very nice things I liked about the first section is the use
of hand-drawn images to depict the concepts being discussed. Not only
does this give a sense of "reality" to the descriptions, it also gave me
a sense of the inherent mutability of the model. How easy to quickly
erase and write a new segement of a drawing on a white board; the issue
of "this is set in stone" is completely eradicated by this technique,
which reinforces the flexible nature of Ruby's object model.

While metaprogramming itself can be a touchy subject ("how much is too
much?" "how do you test and maintain it?" "how do you convey what you're
doing to someone picking up your code" and so on), it is such a useful
thing to know. At the end, the author offers up the opinion that, in
fact, metaprogramming is just programming, after all, with all the
goodness and badness that can result from that if you don't pay
attention to what you're doing, and more importantly, *why* you're doing
it.

I **very strongly** recommend this book to Rubyists, and to others who
want to discover how and why the language works as it does. Anyone
coming to Ruby from another object-oriented language would do very well
to pick up this book and read it thoroughly, completing the various
quizzes in the first section *before* reading the proferred solutions,
and experiment with these techniques.

Even if one never ends up using metaprogramming, the book provides
*such* a great explanation of the object model, it is worth reading in
depth.

[View all my
reviews](http://www.goodreads.com/review/list/3651698-tamara-temple)

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="display: none;">

Summary:A book review of "Metaprogramming in Ruby" by Paolo Perrotta
Parent:(Technology.)Ruby <span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Technology.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Technology.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[Ruby](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Technology.Ruby?action=print)
Categories:[Links](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Links),
[Articles](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Articles) Tags: ruby, book
review, metaprogramming, ruby object model

</div>

</div>
