<div id="wikitext">

Link: [Smashing Daily \#1: Mobile Device Lab, Browsers and Animated
GIFs - Smashing
Magazine](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2012/05/15/smashing-daily-fonts-browsers-maps-money/)

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="round lrindent quote">

Summary:Smashing Daily \#1: Mobile Device Lab, Browsers and Animated
<span class="wikiword">GIFs</span>

<div class="vspace">

</div>

        By Smashing Editorial
        May 15th, 2012
        Smashing Daily
        12 Comments

**Editor's Note:** This post is the first in the new Smashing Daily
series on Smashing Magazine, where we highlight items to help you stay
on the top of what's going on in the industry. Vasilis van Gemert will
carefully pick the most interesting discussions, tools, techniques and
articles that were published recently and present them in a nice compact
overview.

Vasilis goes through dozens of RSS feeds and hundreds of tweets so that
you don't have to.

A couple of words from Vasilis himself:

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div class="indent">

Vasilis van Gemertâ€”Years ago I started collecting links, and once a week
I would write an email to my colleagues with a small introduction to
every link. Later on I decided that more people than just my colleagues
might benefit from this collection, so I decided to publish everything
on The Daily Nerd.
<div class="vspace">

</div>

</div>

<div class="indent">

Last November, during the Fronteers conference in Amsterdam, Lea Verou
convinced me to start writing in English; up until then, I wrote my
comments in Dutch. More and more people started following me, and I
think that's a good thing; I believe more talented people than me should
know the things I know. By more talented people, I of course mean you,
the reader, so you can understand just how excited I was when Vitaly
Friedman asked me if I wanted to start publishing the Daily Nerd on
Smashing Magazine. So, here we are, the first episode of the Smashing
Daily! I hope you like it!

</div>

</div>

Posted: 2012-5-15 15:59

<div class="vspace">

</div>

<div style="display: none;">

Parent:(Technology.)Design <span
class="wikiword">[IncludeMe](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Technology.IncludeMe?action=edit)[?](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Technology.IncludeMe?action=edit)</span>:[Technology.Design](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Technology.Design?action=print)
Categories:[Links](http://wiki.tamouse.org?n=Category.Links)

</div>

</div>
