---
# BEGIN: redirect added by jekyllpress on 2014-09-29 00:34:42 -0500
redirect_from:
  - /blog/2013/09/26/book-handbook-to-higher-consciousness/
# END:   redirect added by jekyllpress on 2014-09-29 00:34:42 -0500
layout: post
title: "Book: Handbook to Higher Consciousness"
date: 2013-09-26 13:33
comments: true
categories: [books]
tags: [mindfullness, ken-keys-jr]
---
This book is instrumental in teaching me how to live my life in a conscious, loving way, free from addictions of power, security and sensation.

[_Handbook to Higher Consciousness_](http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/588443.Handbook_to_Higher_Consciousness):

<cite>Keyes, Jr, Ken, _Handbook to Higher Consciousness: The Science of Happiness,_ 1975, Living Love Books. ISBN 0-9600688-8-0 (pbk). BJ1581.2.K45 1986 158'.1 86-27785. </cite>

## Main Precept:

Love everyone unconditionally, including yourself.

## Excerpts:

### From The Twelve Pathways To the Higher Consciousness Planes of Unconditional Love and Oneness

1.  Freeing Myself
    * I am Freeing Myself from security, sensation, and power
    addictions that make me try to forcefully control situations in my
    life, and thus destroy my serenity and keep me from loving myself
    and others.
    
    * I am discovering how my consciousness-dominating addictions
      create my illusory version of the changing world of people and
      situations around me.
      
    * I welcome the opportunity (even if painful) that my
      minute-to-minute experience offers me to become aware of the
      addictions I must reprogram to be liberated from my robot-like
      emotional patterns.
      

2. Being Here Now
    * I always remember that I have everything I need to enjoy my here
    and now -- unless I am letting my consciousness be dominated by
    demands and expectation based on the dead past or the imagined
    future.
    
    * I take full responsibility here and now for everything I
      experience, for it is my own programming that creates my actions
      and also influences the reaction of people around me.
      
    * I accept myself completely here and now and consciously
      experience everything I feel, think, say, and do (including my
      emotion-backed addictions) as a necessary part of my growth into
      higher consciousness.
      

3. Interacting With Others
    * I open myself genuinely to all people by being willing to fully
    communicate my deepest feelings, since hiding in any degree keeps
    me stuck in my illusion of separteness from other people.
    
    * I feel with loving compassion the problems of others without
      getting caught up emotionally in their predicaments that are
      offering them messages they need for their growth.
      
    * I act freely when I am tuned in, centered, and loving, but if
      possible I avoid acting when I am emotionally upset and
      depriving myself of the wisdom that flows from love and expanded
      consciousness.
      

4. Discovering My Conscious-Awareness
    * I am continually calming the restless scanning of my rational
    mind in order to perceive the finer energies that enable me to
    unitively merge with everything around me.
    
    * I am constantly aware of which of the
      SevenCentersOfConsciousness I am using, and I feel my energy,
      perceptiveness, Love and inner peace growing as I open all the
      seven centers of consciousness.
      
    * I am perceiving everyone, including myself, as an awakening
      being who is here to claim his or her birthright to the higher
      consciousness planes of unconditional love and oneness.
      

<cite>pp 14-15, *Handbook to Higher Consciousness*, Ken Keyes, Jr, 1975 Living Love Books.</cite>



## The Seven Centers of Consciousness

1. THE SECURITY CENTER. This center makes you preoccupied with food,
shleter, or whatever you equate with your personal secuirty. This
programming forces your consciousness to be dominated by your
continuous battle to get "enough" from the world in order to feel
secure.

2. THE SENSATION CENTER. This Center is concerned with finding
happieness in life by providing yourself with more and better
pleasurable sensations and activities. For many people, sex is the
most appealing of all sensations. Other addictive sensations may
include the sound of music, the taste of food, etc.

3. THE POWER CENTER. When your consciousness is focused on this
Center, you are concerned with dominating people and situations and
increasing your prestige, wealth, and pride --  in addition to
thousands of more subtle forms of hierarchy, manipulation, and
control.

4. THE LOVE CENTER. At this Center you are transcending subject-object
relationships and are learning to see the world with the feelings and
harmonies of flowing acceptatnce. You see yourself in everyone -- and
everyone in yourself. You feel compassion for the suffering of those
caught in the dramams of security, sensation and power. You are
beginning to love and accept everyone unconditionally -- even
yourself.

5. The CORNUCOPIA CENTER. When your consciousness is illuminated by
this Center, you experience the friendliness of the world you are
creating. You begin to realize that you've always lived in a perfect
world. To the degree that you still have addictions, the perfection
lies in giving you the experience you need to get free of your
emotion-backed demands. As you reprogram your addictions, the
perfection will be experienced as a continuous enjoyment of the here
and now in your life. As you become more loving and accepting, the
world becomes a "horn of plenty" that gives you more than you need to
be happy.

6. THE CONSCIOUS-AWARENESS CENTER. It is liberating to have a Center
from which your Conscious-awareness watches your body and mind perform
on the lower five centers. This is a meta-center from which you
non-judgmentally witness the drama of your body and mind. From this
Center of Centeres, you learn to impartially observe your social roles
and life games from a place that is free from fear and vulnerability.

7. THE COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS CENTER. When you live fully in the Sixth
Center of Consciousness, you are ready to transcend self-awareness and
become pure awareness. At this ulitmate level, you are one with
everything -- you love, peace, energy, beauty, wisdom, clarity,
effectiveness, and oneness.

<cite>pp 48-49, *Handbook to Higher Consciousness*, Ken Keyes, Jr, 1975 Living Love Books.</cite>
