---
layout: post
title: "10 Reasons to Hate Capitalism"
date: 2014-10-26 05:02
categories: [politics]
tags: [dangrous-minds, opinion, economics, society, social-justice, progressive]
source: http://dangerousminds.net/comments/10_reasons_to_hate_capitalism/
---
[Dangerous Minds](http://dangerousminds.net) blog recently ran a commentary on the reasons to hate capitalism.

> **10. Capitalist corporations suffer from a personality disorder
characterized by enduring antisocial behavior, diminished empathy and
remorse, and are rewarded by shareholders for acting that way.** If
corporations could be sent to a criminal psychologist’s office they’d be
diagnosed as psychopaths and locked away forever.

> **9. Capitalism encourages greed**. But greed is only good for
capitalists. For normal people it is anti-social and soul destroying,
not to mention very bad for our communities, which rely on altruism,
compassion and a generalized concern for others.

> **8. Capitalism is a system of minority privilege and class rule based
on the private ownership of means of livelihood**. This gives a few rich
people the power to buy and sell jobs, which means they can build or
destroy entire communities that depend on those jobs.

> **7. Capitalists praise freedom and individualism, but they destroy
freedom and individualism for everyone but themselves**. The vast
majority of us who work for a living are daily asked to uncritically
follow orders, to act as if we are machines, and limit our creativity to
what profits our bosses.

> **6. Capitalists denigrate cooperation and collectivism, but create
mass production processes that rely on both from workers**. Their system
requires us to be cogs in a giant profit-making machine, but because
they fear the power this gives us we are told working together for our
own interests is illegitimate and bad. Thus capitalists undermine unions
and other organizations that encourage workers to cooperate with each
other and act collectively.

> **5. Capitalism requires the largest propaganda system the world has
ever known to convince us it is the only system possible**. It turns
people into consumers through advertising, marketing, entertainment and
even so-called news. Millions around the world are employed to use their
creativity to twist our feelings of love, desire, human solidarity and
fairness into tools of manipulation, so that ever more profits can flow
into the hands of a tiny minority.

> **4. Capitalism is a system in which the principle of one dollar, one
vote, dominates that of one person, one vote**. Those who own the most
shares (bought with their dollars) control giant corporations, many of
which are more powerful than all but a few governments. Rich people also
use their money to dominate the elections that are supposed to give us
all one, equal vote. Under capitalism those with the most money are
entitled to the most goods and services as well as the most say in
directing our governments and our economy.

> **3. Capitalism proclaims the virtue of naked self-interest, but
self-interest without regard for morality, ecology or common sense leads
to environmental degradation, destruction of indigenous communities,
colonialism, war and other forms of mass destruction**. Self-interest
leads capitalists to seek profit absolutely everywhere, regardless of
the damage done to other people and the health of the planet’s
ecosystem. Self-interest leads capitalists to destroy any rival economic
system or way of thinking (such as indigenous communal land use and
respect for nature) that can be a barrier to their endless quest for
profit.

> **2. Capitalism is not a friend to democracy but ultimately its
enemy**. When pushed, capitalists choose capitalism over democracy. If
people use democracy to weaken the power of capitalists the rich and
powerful turn to various forms of fascism in order to keep their
privileges.

> **1. Capitalism is a cancer taking over our planet**. Capitalists make
profits from global warming, from destroying our oceans, from pumping
ever more chemicals into the atmosphere and from patenting everything
they can, including life itself. Only by getting rid of capitalism can
we rescue our environment.

The only question I have, after all this is: what is the alternative, what is another system that isn't susceptable to human kind's feral instincts, personal greed, fear of the unknown driving fight/battle responses, and general apathy in people of privilege except when that privileged position is challenged?

