---
layout: post
title: "Anxiety Behaviours"
date: 2017-02-20 13:13
categories: ["psychology"]
tags: ["anxiety"]

---


Anxiety can be very harmful and it's not something to be overlooked.
The worst problem is that a lot of people can't understand the effects
it can have on a person and find anxious people as being lazy,
irresponsible and passive.

If you are not an anxious person, knowing this can help you understand
anxiety a bit better. If you are, we are sure you are going to agree
with these things.

## Decline invites although you may want to go

There are certain days that you may have planned all along and when
they come, anxiety takes up the whole space. It can become so
debilitating that you feel as if you lack the energy to go out.

You are aware of what is happening to you and you don't want to become
a burden where you are supposed to go - so you just cancel everything.

## Obsess over trivial things other people may not even notice

A simple word or an unintended glance from someone is enough for your
head to start processing and rewinding the situation even for days! The
truth is you obsess over everything that has happened recently or a
week ago, or any time ago, really.

You may obsess over a conversation you had, or the fact that someone
hasn't texted you yet (after a whole 12 hour period) or really just
over the fact that some stranger looked at you as if they knew you.

Whatever the case may be, many would get confused by the notion that
you even notice such things.

## Go to bed late, wake up early in the morning

One of the biggest issues for you is certainly sleeping. Of all the
processing in your head after the day, you find it hard to go to bed on
time.

When early morning comes, your anxiety clock starts ticking again and
ringing several alarms to get things going - even though you are tired.
When your anxiety has switched on (by waking up), you can't do anything
to switch it off, so you don't go back to bed.

## In every situation, the worst scenario is your biggest thought

Instead of enjoying the moment as it is, you can't help picturing and
convincing yourself that the worst scenario is inevitable. If it's a
first date, you are convinced that something will go terribly wrong.

If you get sick, you always manage to connect the symptoms to the worst
diseases you can imagine. It's as if your mind tricks you into
believing that nothing can go right.

## You rewind conversations in your head - over and over again

No matter how well a conversation went with somebody, you always replay
that conversation in your head fearing that you may have said something
wrong. That's why you try to avoid confrontation at all cost.
[INS: :INS]

This constant rewinding seems to be able to haunt you until it starts
chipping a hole from the inside. You always have to remind yourself
that it's your anxiety talking and that there is most certainly nothing
wrong with what you have said in the first place.

## When someone shows concern about you, you become even more worried about the same thing

If someone notices that you are not OK and shows concern, your anxiety
grows even more. The thing is, when you hear someone asking if you are
alright, it makes you fear even more for yourself and your state.

You think - if it has become noticeable, then there has to be more to
it than I thought. This makes you feel worse than you did.

##  You believe that you are to blame if someone doesn't reply right away

When communicating with people, be it your significant other, a friend
or a relative, if they don't respond immediately, you start thinking
that you may have said or done something wrong.

However, you should stop and consider that they may be in the middle of
something that takes up their attention, or that they are just bad at
communicating.

## You are experiencing a breakdown when the future comes as a topic

While most people look forward to the future and make plans for the
future, your view on the future is making you feel intimidated and
frustrated.

Experiencing the present so hard makes you think how hard and daunting
the future may be. This makes you retreat and hide from the thought of
it.

## You always compare your success to others who are your age

Although you may not want to compare yourself to others, your anxiety
makes you scour through Facebook and stay up to date with all the
successful things your peers have done.

Your worries are not that they have managed to succeed, but if you are
ever going to succeed in your life like they have.

## You replay every mistake you make and beat yourself up over it

The worst scenario is making a mistake at work. The thoughts that will
consume you afterwards are tremendously difficult to handle.

Although you strive to perfect whatever you are doing, mistakes can
occur, which is natural. Unfortunately, your anxiety doesn't know that.
In such cases, it becomes your worst enemy.

## On some days, you are too physically and mentally exhausted to even get out of bed

Anxiety burns up most of your energy, both mentally and physically.
That's why it can happen that you cannot function properly and you just
want to remain in bed and leave yourself drown in the sheets.

This paralysis comes as a result of the overwhelming experiences due
to your anxiety.
